Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                      Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman




       Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for
                     Molecular Design
A perspective on persistent molecular state, scientiﬁc contracts, and decision provenance in drug
                                            discovery


             Rafal P. Wiewiora               W. Patrick Walters                 Woody Sherman
                     PsiThera                      OpenADMET                          PsiThera
         rafal.wiewiora@psithera.com           pat.walters@omsf.io         woody.sherman@psithera.com

                                               September 2, 2026

                                                     Abstract
          Commercial computational drug-discovery software has traditionally bundled three sources of value:
      the interface, the scientiﬁc models, and the specialized expertise required to operate those models and
      translate their outputs into design decisions. Large language models, coding agents, and tool-using
      scientiﬁc agents are beginning to unbundle this paradigm. Interfaces, analyses, workﬂow logic, and
      substantial portions of scientiﬁc software can increasingly be generated to meet the needs of a particular
      scientist, project, and question, while agents can automate sophisticated workﬂows that once required
      specialist users.
          This shift repositions where competitive advantage is created in computational drug discovery.
      Faster execution cannot ﬁx an imprecise model, broaden an applicability domain, or enhance the utility
      of a weak prediction. As the underlying tooling becomes increasingly accessible and ﬂuid, strategic dif-
      ferentiation should shift toward superior and more generalizable models, proprietary experimental data,
      accumulated discovery intelligence, and the human discernment needed to frame the right questions
      and evaluate the answers.
          Molarium, available at https://molarium.org, provides a case study of this transition. Created
      during an intensive weekend through collaboration between a drug-discovery scientist and an AI coding
      agent, this open-source molecular workbench operates primarily in a standard web browser. It integrates
      local molecular graphics, editing, conformer generation, molecular mechanics and dynamics, machine-
      learned potentials, and selected protein-structure prediction workﬂows. Beneath its rapidly adaptable
      interface, Molarium maintains a versioned molecular state together with user actions, method speci-
      ﬁcations, provenance, and validation evidence. Decoupling an adaptable interface from an enduring
      scientiﬁc core points toward a broader architecture for generated adaptive software in drug discovery.

Keywords: agentic software development; computational chemistry; molecular design; WebGPU; scien-
tiﬁc validation; provenance; discovery intelligence


1    From ﬁxed software products to generated adaptive software
In computational drug discovery, success depends on deploying the right methodology at the right time,
supported by appropriate parameters, explicit assumptions, and sound scientiﬁc context. Historically,
this work has been concentrated among computational specialists and has required substantial opera-
tional overhead. Docking depends on protein preparation, protocol selection, constraints, and critical
pose evaluation. Molecular dynamics adds system setup, force-ﬁeld assignment, compute infrastructure,
trajectory analysis, and visualization. Free-energy calculations add perturbation design, sampling suf-
ﬁciency, convergence assessment, and alignment with experimental conditions. Comparable layers of

                                                          1
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design              Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



infrastructure surround cheminformatics, quantum chemistry, property prediction, generative molecular
design, and structure prediction.
Commercial scientiﬁc software has created considerable value by simplifying and integrating many of
these activities. Graphical interfaces reduced technical barriers, workﬂow engines connected fragmented
programs, and software packages encoded operational details needed to apply methods consistently. The
same integration coupled scientiﬁc questions to relatively ﬁxed software environments. Project-speciﬁc
improvements competed with broader product roadmaps, new analyses often required engineering support,
and scientiﬁc users frequently adapted their questions to the capabilities and conventions of the available
applications.
Large language models and coding agents are beginning to change this relationship. A scientist with deep
drug-discovery expertise but limited programming experience can increasingly describe an application,
analysis, visualization, or workﬂow in natural language and have software constructed around the scien-
tiﬁc need. Tool-using agents can operate established methods, link calculations, handle routine failures,
and assemble results into forms that support decisions. Earlier systems such as ChemCrow and Chem-
Graph established proof-of-concept for language models coordinating chemistry tools and computational
workﬂows [1–4]. Their practical scope was limited compared with current coding agents, but they helped
establish the feasibility of coupling language models to executable scientiﬁc tools.
The consequence is a shift in how drug hunters can interact with computational science. Scientists can
increasingly shape software around the question, the stage of the project, the data available at that
moment, and their preferred way of reasoning about the problem. A medicinal chemist optimizing a
macrocycle may need a diﬀerent interface and set of calculations than a structural biologist interrogating
a cryptic pocket or a program team deciding which compound to advance. The interface can serve as a
temporary, adaptive view over a more durable scientiﬁc substrate.
Molarium’s development directly reﬂects this paradigm. It began as a need for a more eﬀective environ-
ment for viewing and altering molecular structures and expanded through active use. Scientiﬁc challenges
drove software changes: an unrealistic geometry led to reﬁned editing semantics; questionable energies
triggered explicit numerical reference checks; ambiguity about the execution backend led to clearer iden-
tiﬁcation of the active engine; and unsupported methods were converted into explicit boundaries rather
than unstated assumptions. The tool evolved alongside the scientiﬁc investigation. Appendix A provides
the corresponding execution architecture, numerical validation, and executable design-history example.
Appendix B provides task-centered workﬂows for scientists and agents, including the relationship among
skill contracts, public API actions, replay, and persistent Design History.


2    Molarium and the value of a persistent molecular state
Molarium is a local-ﬁrst molecular viewer, builder, and simulation workbench released under the Apache
License 2.0. Most supported calculations execute on the user’s device using WebAssembly or WebGPU,
allowing molecular graphics, editing, cheminformatics, conformer exploration, molecular mechanics, molec-
ular dynamics, machine-learned potentials, and selected protein-structure prediction workﬂows to coexist
in a standard browser environment. The browser reduces installation and orchestration overhead and,
for supported calculations, can avoid remote job submission, cloud-compute charges, and application li-
censing while keeping computation inside the interactive design loop. WebAssembly provides a route for
mature compiled scientiﬁc libraries to run locally, while WebGPU exposes modern accelerators through a
portable browser API [5, 6].
The architectural choice that matters most is the preservation of a common scientiﬁc state. Molarium
maintains explicit topology, coordinates, protonation state, chemical edits, preparation history, trajecto-
ries, model identity, and provenance as properties of the molecular session rather than allowing each view
or calculation to construct its own interpretation of the molecule. The interface can therefore change


                                                        2
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                      Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



rapidly without redeﬁning the scientiﬁc object beneath it.
Three task-speciﬁc views illustrate this separation. View emphasizes the molecular system, including
protein, ligand, waters, ions, contacts, and selected residues. Design exposes chemical and geometrical
interventions. Simulate emphasizes preparation, trajectories, and analysis. The controls diﬀer because
the scientiﬁc questions diﬀer; topology, coordinates, method identity, and history remain attached to the
same evolving molecular state. Detailed implementation and replay examples are provided in Appendix A,
while the state mutations, exports, and failure behaviour of the corresponding user-facing modules are
speciﬁed in Appendix B.




Figure 1: Molarium in its normal View workspace after browser-local Sage/CCD preparation of the experimen-
tal fragment F1-bound KRAS–SOS1 complex (PDB 6EPM). The oﬃcial RCSB Chemical Component Dictionary
topology supplies the BQ5/F1 bond orders and the chemically correct 2D depiction shown at lower left. The com-
plete deposited protein assembly is shown as cartoons, while BQ5/F1 and protein residues within 5 Å are rendered
atomically to localize the allosteric design pocket. Preparation excluded crystallographic water; glycerol and display
hydrogens are hidden for clarity. This scene provides structural context; the prospective hit-to-BAY-293 trajectory
in Fig. 2 began independently from the 5OVE/AXE structure alone.

The executable replay is available at https://molarium.org/sos1-hit-to-bay293.
This separation becomes important when interfaces are inexpensive to modify. If every generated view can
redeﬁne a molecule, select a diﬀerent charge model, change protonation, alter preparation, or reinterpret
a trajectory, ﬂexibility becomes a source of scientiﬁc ambiguity. Generated adaptive software therefore
requires a stronger boundary between presentation and scientiﬁc state than a conventional ﬁxed interface
typically provides.
Molarium extends this principle by preserving the sequence of molecular states and user actions that
produced the current session. Edits, selections, manipulations, calculations, and other interactions form
an event history rather than leaving only the ﬁnal coordinates. The resulting architecture is closer to


                                                          3
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                    Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman




Figure 2: Hit-only SOS1 design replayed in the Molarium interface through the public Chemist Actions API. (A)
The prepared 5OVE/AXE hit (teal) and its local pocket establish the camera used throughout; 5OVE/AXE was
the sole coordinate-bearing input. (B) Sequential scaﬀold rewriting and growth produces compound 21 (purple)
in the inherited Phe890-in pocket. The cyan halo identiﬁes the edited ligand region, gold identiﬁes Phe890, and
magenta dotted connectors mark severe ligand–protein short contacts recalculated from the live coordinates. (C)
A discrete side-chain search presents alternatives and the designer chooses the Phe890-out hypothesis; only the six
moved Phe890 heavy atoms are haloed. (D) In the opened pocket, a 64-chain restrained search re-ﬁts compound
21, applies the selected feasible pose, and couples it to the receptor during WebGPU relaxation. The ligand
displacement from B to D is a modeled coordinate change, not camera motion or an MD trajectory. Between D
and E, a graph edit converts compound 21 into the 32-heavy-atom BAY-293 design. A new 64-chain pose search
selects a feasible conformation and repositions nine ligand heavy atoms (maximum displacement 5.90 Å); coupled
WebGPU relaxation then moves 49 ligand and nearby pocket heavy atoms above the 0.08 Å reporting threshold
(maximum displacement 1.19 Å). (E) The resulting BAY-293 prediction is shown with the same camera. The replay
ends at this prediction and never opens 5OVI. Independent post-freeze comparison with 5OVI subsequently gave
a receptor-aligned, graph-symmetry-minimized ligand RMSD of 1.215 Å and Phe890 χ1 values of −172.43◦ in the
prediction and −166.55◦ in the crystal; those validation coordinates did not seed the replay.


                                                        4
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                  Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



version control than to a traditional molecular project ﬁle. Each molecular state can be associated with
the actions that produced it, the calculation applied to it, and the evidence available at that point in the
design process.
The “Git for molecules” analogy is useful, although a drug-design history is richer than source code. A
design trajectory includes structural changes together with evolving hypotheses, model outputs, uncer-
tainty, and experimental evidence. In a discovery setting, such a record could capture which analogs
were considered, which structures or properties inﬂuenced a design, which alternatives were rejected, and
what was learned when a compound was synthesized and tested. This creates a foundation for record-
ing medicinal-chemistry design trajectories rather than storing only the compounds that survived them.
Much of the information that explains how a program learned lies in alternatives that were considered
and abandoned, yet conventional compound databases usually preserve endpoints.




Figure 3: Molarium’s local-ﬁrst architecture. Named computational engines act on an explicit molecular state
while provenance and validation evidence remain attached. The same principle provides a foundation for versioned
molecular histories in which scientiﬁc actions can be replayed and compared without allowing a new interface to
redeﬁne the underlying state.

The browser also provides a useful trust boundary for proprietary work. Molarium’s Local Lab mode
can restrict network access and verify reviewed application assets while keeping supported calculations on
the local device. Because privacy controls depend on deployment conﬁguration, this architecture makes
data movement explicit and auditable. Organizations can evaluate and enforce how molecular data are
handled rather than treating transfer to remote infrastructure as an invisible property of the software
stack. Appendix B speciﬁes the connected and Local Lab network policies and makes clear that local
calculation and fully oﬄine operation are distinct claims.


3    Scientiﬁc contracts: provenance, validation, and falsiﬁability
The emergence of cheap, adaptive software introduces a scientiﬁc vulnerability. Agentically generated
workﬂows become especially risky when seamless execution obscures the boundaries of the underlying
scientiﬁc contract. As the time required to build a custom analysis view drops to minutes, that view
still needs to expose the molecule, model, parameters, assumptions, and evidence that produced the
result. Reducing the friction of software development without those safeguards increases the rate at
which scientiﬁc ambiguity can be created.
We use the term scientiﬁc contract for the collection of invariants and evidence that gives a computational
output its meaning. A molecular-mechanics result cannot be deﬁned by the generic label “molecular
mechanics.” Its identity depends on the molecular state, charge assignment, parameterization, energy
function, treatment of nonbonded interactions, boundary conditions, constraints, integrator, numerical
implementation, and precision. A learned potential depends on its architecture, weights, preprocessing,
supported chemistry, and training domain. A protein-structure prediction depends on checkpoint selection,

                                                        5
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



sequence and template information, inference protocol, and other model-speciﬁc choices. The surrounding
interface may adapt dynamically, but these scientiﬁc identities must remain explicit and protected from
silent drift.
Molarium preserves distinctions among computational pathways even when they operate in the same
workspace. RDKit supports chemical perception and conformer generation; OpenFF Sage deﬁnes a
molecular-mechanics model; OpenMM Reference provides an independent numerical route for selected
validation tests; STORMM-inspired WebGPU code advances homogeneous replicas; ANI-2x provides a
machine-learned potential with a deﬁned chemical domain; and OpenFold supports a separate protein-
structure prediction pathway [7–12]. These methods can be compared or chained without implying that
their energies, assumptions, or domains are interchangeable. Appendix A speciﬁes the implemented nu-
merical pathways and their validation boundaries; Appendix B records how those pathways are exposed,
invoked, and constrained in the current workbench.
The same principle applies to workﬂow provenance. Reproducible computational science requires retention
of the data, computational process, execution environment, and provenance that produced a result [15,
17]. More recent work formalizes workﬂow invariants and testable reproducibility criteria rather than
treating provenance as passive metadata [16]. Generated adaptive software increases the importance of
this requirement because the workﬂow itself may be created or modiﬁed during the scientiﬁc interaction
rather than existing as a stable artifact deﬁned in advance.
This leads to a stronger requirement: generation of a scientiﬁc workﬂow should be accompanied by genera-
tion of the conditions under which its claims could be falsiﬁed. If an agent implements a conformer-search
strategy, the output should include the benchmark that tests whether conformational coverage improves,
the independent reference used for comparison, the quantitative tolerance that deﬁnes agreement, the ap-
plicability limits of the test, and explicit failure conditions. If an agent adds a numerical kernel, it should
generate the corresponding independent comparison and acceptance criteria. These are better understood
as scientiﬁc contract tests than as ordinary software unit tests because they deﬁne what scientiﬁc claim
the implementation can support.




Figure 4: The scientist–agent build loop. Scientiﬁc needs and objections are translated into software changes, while
each new capability is paired with claim-deﬁning tests, reference evidence, applicability limits, and provenance. The
ability to generate a workﬂow and the ability to specify how its claim could fail are treated as parts of the same
scientiﬁc result.

Molarium’s development repeatedly followed this pattern. A chemically implausible geometry exposed a
problem in representation and editing semantics. A questionable energy prompted comparison with an
independent implementation. A discrepancy between CPU and GPU execution revealed both a unit error
and an incorrect assumption about which backend was running. Requesting constrained dynamics led to
implementation of SHAKE/RATTLE and comparison against a reference pathway [13, 14]. In each case,
the useful scientiﬁc result consisted of the feature together with a test that established the boundary of
the claim.


                                                         6
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                   Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



Fluent agentic software makes this distinction more consequential. A unit error can produce a smooth
trajectory. Separate implementations can agree if they inherit the same ﬂawed inputs. A numerically
correct implementation can apply an inappropriate physical model. Successful execution and an attrac-
tive visualization therefore occupy the bottom of an evidence hierarchy rather than establishing that a
molecular prediction is correct.




Figure 5: An evidence ladder for generated scientiﬁc software. Successful execution establishes less than numerical
agreement; numerical agreement establishes less than retrospective predictive performance; retrospective perfor-
mance establishes less than prospective transfer; and prospective accuracy is distinct from measurable improvement
in drug-discovery decisions.

When software construction is diﬃcult, the labor of building a computational method can obscure the
separate obligation to validate it. As implementation becomes easier, the scientiﬁc responsibility becomes
harder to ignore. The workﬂow, its provenance, and the conditions that could falsify its claims should
therefore be treated as a single scientiﬁc object.


4    Local computation changes the interaction model
A web browser does not replace production molecular simulation software or high-performance computing.
Large periodic systems, long trajectories, advanced sampling, specialized force ﬁelds, and large-scale
parallel studies can require substantially more compute than a personal machine can provide. Molarium
addresses a diﬀerent part of the workﬂow: calculations that are suﬃciently bounded to remain inside the
scientist’s interactive design session.
The practical beneﬁt is reduced decision latency. Consider a medicinal chemist examining a bound lig-
and and asking whether a proposed three-dimensional edit creates an avoidable steric problem or opens
a plausible alternative conformation. In a fragmented workﬂow, the scientist may export coordinates,
request or run a separate calculation, move results back into a viewer, and reconstruct the context in
which the question arose. In Molarium, supported editing, local relaxation, conformational exploration,
and trajectory inspection can occur in the same session. The value comes from keeping the molecular
state, the calculation, and the design question connected while the decision is still active.
Local execution also changes economics for these interactive calculations. The marginal cost of many
small calculations approaches the cost of hardware already on the user’s desk, without requiring a remote
orchestration cycle or a separate software license for each supported operation. This advantage is most
relevant in the rapid design loop, where a calculation may be useful because it answers a focused question
in minutes rather than because it achieves the maximum possible throughput on a benchmark.
The lower operational barrier increases the importance of choosing calculations deliberately. A medicinal
chemist deciding between two substituent orientations may gain value from a constrained local reﬁnement


                                                        7
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design               Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



that changes which analog is synthesized next; running hundreds of additional simulations after the deci-
sion is already insensitive to the result adds computational activity without increasing scientiﬁc leverage.
The operational gain matters when it helps the scientist focus on the right question, apply the appropriate
method, and prioritize molecules that have a realistic chance to advance the program.
Local execution also redistributes control. The scientist can determine which analysis should exist, how
data should be juxtaposed, and which calculation should be available at the point of decision. Molarium
illustrates this shift: a scientist did not need to wait for every useful workﬂow to appear on a conventional
product roadmap. Missing interfaces and bounded implementations could be added while the underlying
question was still active.


5    What becomes scarce when the tool layer becomes cheap
A concrete medicinal-chemistry example helps separate the layers of value. Suppose a project team is
considering a substitution intended to improve a ligand’s interaction with a newly identiﬁed pocket while
preserving permeability. The tool layer provides the editor, visualization, coordinate handling, workﬂow
logic, and connection to the relevant calculations. The model layer determines whether the predicted
pose, conformational preference, interaction energy, or permeability estimate is credible. The discovery-
intelligence layer supplies the project-speciﬁc context: prior SAR, assay conditions, structural interpreta-
tion, known liabilities, synthetic constraints, and the reason the team is considering that particular design
at that point in the program. Coding agents can make the ﬁrst layer easier to construct. The value of the
second and third layers depends on scientiﬁc accuracy and accumulated knowledge rather than interface
complexity.
The tool layer includes graphical interfaces, visualization, format conversion, wrappers, workﬂow logic,
reports, job control, data plumbing, and bounded numerical implementation. These capabilities remain
important and require maintenance, but their marginal reproduction cost is falling quickly as coding agents
improve. A scientist can increasingly generate a project-speciﬁc view or connect an existing computational
method without waiting for the corresponding feature to appear in a commercial release.
The model layer includes force ﬁelds, quantum-mechanical methods, docking and scoring functions, free-
energy models, machine-learned potentials, protein-structure predictors, molecular representations, prop-
erty models, parameters, weights, uncertainty calibration, and the evidence that establishes their useful
domain. Easier invocation does not improve predictive quality. A docking model with an inadequate scor-
ing function remains inadequate when an agent invokes it. A systematic force-ﬁeld error can become more
damaging when automated workﬂows propagate it across thousands of calculations. A machine-learned
property model does not gain extrapolative validity because a language model describes its output ﬂuently,
and a protein-structure predictor does not become reliable for a particular conformational state because
it is available through a better interface.
Diﬀerences among models therefore become more consequential as the mechanics of invoking them become
less scarce. Drug discovery frequently requires extrapolation into new chemistry, structural states, and
biological contexts rather than interpolation within a well-sampled training distribution [18–20]. Faster
access can accelerate good models and weak models alike.
The discovery-intelligence layer includes proprietary experimental data, negative results, project history,
assay context, structural interpretation, design rationale, internal protocols, expert judgment, and pro-
gram objectives. Molarium intentionally contains little of this layer because it is a public workbench
built primarily from public scientiﬁc components. The same architecture could be connected to internal
structures, assay data, pharmacokinetics, target biology, medicinal-chemistry reasoning, and program ob-
jectives. That project-speciﬁc context can determine which computation is relevant and how much weight
its output should receive.
Versioned molecular history provides a bridge into discovery intelligence. Traditional compound databases

                                                        8
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                    Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman




Figure 6: Three interdependent layers of value in generated adaptive molecular design. Implementation and
orchestration are becoming increasingly reproducible by coding agents. Scientiﬁc models remain diﬀerentiated by
accuracy, representation, domain coverage, calibration, and validation. Proprietary discovery intelligence combines
experimental data with the context and decision history that make those data useful.


record what was made and measured well, but they rarely preserve what was considered, why one design
was preferred, which model or structure inﬂuenced the decision, or what evidence was visible at the time.
A persistent action history can capture that decision trajectory.
For example, a chemist might propose adding a substituent after inspecting a pocket in a protein–ligand
structure. The project record could retain the parent structure, the molecular edit, the structural hypoth-
esis, the conformational or energetic calculations viewed before synthesis, competing designs that were
rejected, and the subsequent experimental measurements. If the design later fails because an assumed
interaction was absent or a liability dominated the proﬁle, that information remains associated with the
decision that created the molecule. Future scientists and agents can then ask which assumptions repeat-
edly led to productive designs and which repeatedly failed. This is decision provenance: preserving the
relationship among hypotheses, interventions, predictions, decisions, and outcomes rather than storing
only ﬁnal compounds and assay values.
Agentic systems provide a mechanism to operationalize some of this accumulated knowledge through scien-
tiﬁc skills. Here, a skill means a version-controlled, machine-executable procedure that combines a deﬁned
tool or model with an organization’s accepted inputs, assumptions, validation criteria, applicability limits,
failure handling, and escalation rules. A protein-preparation skill might encode how crystallographic wa-
ters, protonation states, alternate conformations, unusual residues, and ambiguous cases are handled. A
free-energy skill might deﬁne accepted perturbations, convergence criteria, diagnostics, and failure modes.
The durable asset is the scientiﬁc procedure and its validation, rather than the natural-language prompt
used to invoke it.


6    The changing role of scientiﬁc expertise
As software becomes easier to construct and operate, scientiﬁc judgment becomes more valuable. Tra-
ditional computational expertise includes substantial operational knowledge: preparing inputs, locating
settings, translating ﬁles between programs, recovering failed jobs, and reproducing standard analyses. An
increasing fraction of this work can be encoded in software and agents. The broader automation literature
has long recognized that reducing routine operation can increase the importance of human expertise when
systems encounter ambiguous or abnormal conditions [21].
The highest-value expertise shifts toward selecting the right question, choosing an appropriate level of
model ﬁdelity, deﬁning acceptable tradeoﬀs between cost and accuracy, recognizing implausible results,
selecting meaningful controls, and determining which evidence would change a project decision. Scientists
closest to the underlying discovery problem—whether medicinal chemists, structural biologists, mech-


                                                        9
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design              Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



anistic biologists, pharmacologists, or computational scientists—can increasingly interact directly with
relevant data and calculations rather than routing every question through a software intermediary.
This shift changes the leverage of computational specialists. Less specialist time needs to be spent con-
structing repetitive interfaces, transferring ﬁles, or manually operating routine workﬂows. More can be
spent on model development, molecular physics, parameterization, sampling, uncertainty, validation, and
diﬃcult edge cases where established workﬂows fail. Once that expertise is made explicit, part of it can be
encoded into validated scientiﬁc skills that broaden access without implying that the underlying science
has become simple.
Molarium’s development illustrates this division of labor. The coding agent could inspect a repository,
refactor software, implement numerical kernels, add tests, and repeat the loop rapidly. The scientist
had to recognize chemically implausible results, decide whether a reference was genuinely independent,
determine whether a discrepancy mattered, choose acceptable approximations, and identify what evidence
would change a decision. The agent compressed the distance between recognizing a scientiﬁc need and
changing the software; scientiﬁc judgment determined which changes mattered.
The bottleneck therefore moves toward epistemology: deciding which approximation is acceptable, whether
a faster method sacriﬁces information that matters to the decision, when an independent control is required,
whether a reference is truly independent, whether a model is operating outside its validated domain, what
uncertainty must remain visible, and which experiment would discriminate between competing hypotheses.
Faster implementation increases the value of asking the right question.


7    Limitations and outlook
Molarium is a case study rather than a controlled experiment in software productivity or drug-discovery
performance. Its development involved a small number of scientists, one evolving codebase, and a partic-
ular coding-agent workﬂow. The project did not include a randomized comparison with a conventional
software-development team, and it cannot establish a universal productivity multiplier or determine what
fraction of commercial scientiﬁc software can be regenerated reliably.
The open-source repository can nevertheless support a useful community experiment. Contributors can
identify computational capabilities described in papers or public speciﬁcations, attempt independent agent-
assisted reconstructions, test them against appropriate references, and record which parts can and cannot
be reproduced reliably. Over time, this could become a living benchmark for the regeneration of molecular-
modeling software, with success deﬁned by scientiﬁc contract tests rather than by code generation alone.
Molarium’s scientiﬁc scope is deliberately bounded. Current browser-native molecular mechanics does
not reproduce the full capability of mature native simulation environments. General periodic simulation,
particle-mesh Ewald electrostatics, barostats, membranes, unrestricted protein parameterization, arbitrary
plugins, and other advanced capabilities remain outside the current browser-native scope. ANI-2x remains
valid only within its declared chemical domain, and browser-based OpenFold support is narrower than
general production protein-structure prediction workﬂows. Generated wrappers and easier access must
preserve, expose, and enforce these applicability limits rather than implying broader scientiﬁc validity.
Appendix A catalogues the demonstrated implementation and numerical boundaries, and Appendix B
provides the corresponding operational status, failure modes, and end-user limits.
A second limitation concerns the distinction between implementation ﬁdelity and predictive validity. If
a browser implementation reproduces an OpenMM reference energy and force to a speciﬁed tolerance,
that result establishes that the implementation is executing the declared calculation correctly for the
tested case. It does not establish that the shared force ﬁeld predicts the experimental behavior of a
new molecule. Likewise, a conformer workﬂow can reproduce its intended algorithm and explore more
structures without improving recovery of biologically relevant conformations. Implementation validation
and model validation answer diﬀerent questions and require diﬀerent evidence.

                                                        10
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design              Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



The future suggested by Molarium is one in which the interface between scientist and computation becomes
more ﬂuid while the scientiﬁc state, models, assumptions, evidence, and decision history become more
explicit. Project teams can construct temporary views around speciﬁc questions; internal models can
coexist with open-source methods and commercial services; and the user experience no longer needs to be
owned by the provider of each underlying calculation.
The durable infrastructure in such an environment is concrete. A user should be able to inspect the
active molecular state and its history, the exact model and parameter versions used for each calculation,
declared applicability limits, validation status, assumptions, provenance, and links between predictions
and subsequent decisions. These quantities should remain available regardless of which generated view
is open. An adaptive interface can change rapidly because the scientiﬁc contract underneath it remains
stable and inspectable.


8    Conclusion
Molarium began as a request for a better environment in which to inspect and manipulate molecules.
It developed rapidly into a local-ﬁrst molecular-design workbench incorporating topology-aware editing,
protein preparation, conformer exploration, molecular mechanics, molecular dynamics, learned potentials,
protein-structure prediction, browser-native GPU computation, provenance, and reference validation. The
speed of that development is technically interesting, but the broader lesson concerns the architecture of
scientiﬁc software and the location of durable value.
Software can increasingly be generated around the scientiﬁc question and the user’s speciﬁc preferences.
The quality of the underlying models, validation, and decision history becomes more consequential as the
interface becomes cheaper and more ﬂuid. The scarce assets shift toward trustworthy models, proprietary
discovery intelligence, and the human judgment required to know what to ask and what to believe.
Molarium also suggests that molecular-design environments should preserve more than the latest structure.
A versioned record of molecular states, user actions, calculations, assumptions, and results can capture the
trajectory by which scientiﬁc decisions were made. Coupled to explicit scientiﬁc contracts and falsiﬁcation
tests, that history can make generated adaptive software more reproducible, extensible, and scientiﬁcally
accountable.
When software is diﬃcult to construct, implementation eﬀort can hide the distinction between building
a method and validating it. When implementation becomes easy, the remaining scientiﬁc obligations
become harder to ignore. The opportunity is to place adaptable computational capability directly in
the hands of scientists who understand the problem while preserving the models, evidence, and decision
history that determine whether the answer should be trusted.
The tool layer is becoming cheap and adaptive. Scientiﬁc advantage moves toward better models, better
discovery intelligence, and better decisions.


AI assistance and availability
GPT-5.6 Sol was used extensively as a coding agent during the development of Molarium under human
scientiﬁc direction, inspection, testing, and revision. Language-model assistance was also used in restruc-
turing and drafting this manuscript. The authors remain responsible for the scientiﬁc claims, validation,
source attribution, and ﬁnal text.
Molarium is available at https://molarium.org. Its source code and technical documentation are pub-
licly available under the Apache License 2.0 at https://github.com/rafwiewiora/molarium. Bundled
third-party software, model parameters, force ﬁelds, and scientiﬁc data retain their separately identi-
ﬁed terms. Quantitative benchmark results are scoped by the relevant implementation state, ﬁxtures,


                                                        11
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design          Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



model and asset hashes, browser and hardware environment, numerical precision, and timing protocol.
Appendix A provides the architecture, numerical validation, and executable design-history evidence un-
derlying these results; Appendix B records the inspected operating surface, module boundaries, failure
behaviour, and export/persistence contracts.




                                                        12
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                 Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



                                              APPENDIX A
         Molarium architecture, numerical validation, and
                   executable design history

This appendix speciﬁes the implementation and validation substrate underlying the architectural claims in the main
text. It deﬁnes the molecular-state contract shared across chemistry perception, parameterization, numerical execu-
tion, visualization, and provenance; describes the OpenMM/WebAssembly and WebGPU execution paths; reports
ﬁxed-input numerical validation and workload-dependent performance measurements; and documents the content-
addressed replay and decision-history mechanisms used by Molarium. The ﬁnal section provides an executable SOS1
design-history example. Numerical agreement is treated as implementation validation of a declared calculation and
is kept distinct from validation of the underlying physical or statistical model.


A.1     Execution architecture
Molarium maintains a single molecular state keyed by stable atom identiﬁers across ingestion, chemical perception,
parameterization, calculation, visualization, and replay. RDKit provides graph interpretation, conformer generation,
SMARTS matching, and ligand-level preparation. A JavaScript SMIRNOFF parameterizer applies OpenFF Sage
2.1.0 to generate an explicit numerical recipe containing particle properties, bonded terms, nonbonded terms, ex-
ceptions, and constraints. Preparation fails on missing required parameters rather than substituting inferred terms.
The accepted recipe is consumed by the OpenMM/WebAssembly reference path and the direct or replica-parallel
WebGPU paths, allowing backend comparisons on identical topology, coordinates, parameters, and atom ordering.
The primary data path is:

                                         PDB or SMILES input
                                                     ↓
                        molecular graph, stable atom identities, and coordinates
                                                     ↓
                        RDKit interpretation → OpenFF Sage numerical recipe
                                                     ↓
                OpenMM/WebAssembly reference | direct WebGPU | replica-parallel WebGPU
                                                     ↓
                       viewer, action audit, calculation record, and design history

The same molecular object remains authoritative as calculations return coordinates, forces, energies, or trajectories.
Table 1 summarizes the current implementation.
Internal units are nm, ps, daltons, kJ/mol, and kJ/mol/nm; the interface presents angstroms and kcal/mol where
appropriate. Numerical engines execute in reusable Web Workers so rendering and user interaction remain responsive.
Requests carry job identiﬁers, and failed workers are discarded and recreated. Results return as compact coordinate,
force, energy, or trajectory arrays mapped to the originating atom identities.
For ordinary small molecules, the browser parameterizer applies Sage 2.1.0 patterns and labelled Gasteiger charges [8,
26]. Prepared Rosemary validation ﬁxtures retain their exported numerical recipes and NAGL charges. CPU/GPU
comparisons therefore operate on the same prepared graph and numerical inputs rather than independently param-
eterized systems.


A.1.1    OpenMM WebAssembly reference

OpenMM 8.2.0 is cross-compiled with Emscripten 6.0.6-git and CMake 3.31.0 [9, 27]. A thin C interface constructs
an OpenMM System from the serialized numerical recipe and returns energies, forces, minimized coordinates, or
short trajectories. Source, patches, interface code, and built assets carry recorded ﬁngerprints so the deployed
reference path can be associated with a speciﬁc implementation state.



                                                         13
Molarium — Appendix A                                                               Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



                                   Table 1: Current browser implementation.

Task                     Software used                  Implementation role
Molecular interpreta-    RDKit 2025.03.4,        We-    SMILES/graph handling, ETKDGv3, SMARTS matching,
tion                     bAssembly                      MMFF94, explicit UFF fallback, and Gasteiger charges
Force-ﬁeld assignment    OpenFF Sage 2.1.0              Generates particles, bonds, angles, torsions, nonbonded
                                                        terms, exceptions, and constraints
Numerical reference      OpenMM 8.2.0 Reference,        Double-precision energies and forces, L-BFGS minimiza-
                         WebAssembly                    tion, and short dynamics used for ﬁxed-input reference com-
                                                        parisons
Direct local mechanics   WebGPU/WGSL,          32-bit   Single-system force/energy evaluation, OBC2/ACE, mini-
                         ﬂoating point                  mization, and short dynamics
Replica-parallel   me-   STORMM-inspired         We-    Advances independent replicas sharing one topology and pa-
chanics                  bGPU engine                    rameter layout; paired-word ﬁxed-point accumulation; cur-
                                                        rent limit 512 atoms per replica
State and provenance     JavaScript modules, back-      Preserves atom identity and records action, calculation, re-
                         ground workers, Canvas,        play, and SHA-256-linked provenance
                         Web Crypto


The reference conﬁguration is nonperiodic and uses the double-precision OpenMM Reference platform. Supported
operations include energy and force evaluation, L-BFGS minimization, short dynamics, optional X–H constraints, 2
fs Langevin-middle integration, a cutoﬀ conﬁguration used for validation, and OBC2/ACE with mbondi2 radii [28].
The WebAssembly build exposed a threading-speciﬁc setup failure for constrained dynamics: native OpenMM
creates helper CPU threads during constraint initialization, whereas the browser build is single-threaded. A serial
patch removes the wait path for this build without modifying native OpenMM.
Fixed-input parity was evaluated in two stages. The same C interface compiled natively and for WebAssembly
agreed to a maximum energy diﬀerence of 2.84 × 10−14 kcal/mol and relative force RMS of 3.76 × 10−15 . Five hash-
selected protein–ligand poses were then prepared through browser Sage and evaluated with matched numerical
inputs. Maximum energy diﬀerences were 1.24 × 10−4 kcal/mol in vacuum and 2.76 × 10−4 kcal/mol with OBC2;
maximum relative force RMS error was 1.16 × 10−5 in both modes. These tests establish implementation parity for
the speciﬁed ﬁxtures and protocols.


A.1.2    Direct WebGPU mechanics

The direct WebGPU path evaluates the prepared force-ﬁeld equations in WGSL using 32-bit ﬂoating-point arith-
metic. Force ownership is atomwise: one invocation owns the output force for one atom, and compact incidence lists
identify the bonded terms that contribute to that atom. Pair and valence terms are recomputed where required so
each invocation writes its force once, avoiding ﬂoating-point atomic updates, which WGSL does not provide [22].
The deployed nonbonded representation stores excluded and specially scaled pairs explicitly and mixes ordinary
Lennard–Jones parameters on demand. An earlier all-pairs metadata representation required 32N 2 bytes and im-
posed a practical allocation ceiling; the sparse exception representation removes that quadratic metadata cost.
OBC2/ACE is evaluated in three kernel passes for Born radii, coordinate derivatives, and solvent/nonpolar energy
and force accumulation. Optional X–H constraints are graph-coloured so non-overlapping SHAKE/RATTLE cor-
rections can execute concurrently [13, 14]. Seeded Langevin dynamics supports 1 fs ﬂexible and 2 fs constrained
integration.
Pocket relaxation uses a bounded steepest-descent procedure with zero inverse mass on ﬁxed receptor atoms; only
the ligand and explicitly selected pocket atoms move. Current operating limits are listed in Table 2.
At the interactive system sizes tested here, a conventional Verlet neighbour list did not improve performance. With
a 0.2 nm skin rebuilt every 20 steps, 5,000 constrained OBC2 Trp-cage steps were 46% slower and 1,000 ubiquitin
steps were 17% slower than full-range nonbonded evaluation on an Apple M1 Pro. The cutoﬀ route is therefore
retained for validation but is not exposed in the product controls.
GPU beneﬁt depends on amortizing dispatch and data movement. A single Trp-cage energy/force evaluation


                                                        14
Molarium — Appendix A                                                               Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



                        Table 2: Operating limits in the current direct WebGPU worker.

  Setting                                 Current value
  Principal force workgroup               64 atomwise calculations
  Time step                               1 fs ﬂexible; 2 fs with X–H constraints
  Constraint solve                        Four graph-coloured sweeps by default; at most 32
  Minimization                            750 iterations by default; at most 2,000; each displacement capped at
                                          0.001 nm
  Direct dynamics request                 At most 5,000 steps; longer requests use the ensemble route
  Validation cutoﬀ                        1.0 nm cutoﬀ; 0.2 nm skin; rebuild every 20 steps


required 25.5 ms in WebGPU and 5.7 ms in OpenMM Reference. Across 1,000 dynamics steps, WebGPU reached
214.9 versus 102.8 ns/day for 304-atom Trp-cage and 65.18 versus 7.11 ns/day for 1,231-atom ubiquitin. These
measurements use warmed, nonperiodic, all-pairs workloads. The direct path does not currently implement periodic
boundaries, particle-mesh Ewald electrostatics, explicit solvent, barostats, virtual sites, or arbitrary OpenMM
custom forces.


A.1.3    Replica-parallel WebGPU

The replica engine targets throughput across independent copies of a shared topology. One replica maps to one
GPU workgroup, in contrast to the atomwise decomposition used by the direct engine. The memory layout and
ﬁxed-point accumulation strategy draw on STORMM’s stacked-system design, while the browser implementation is
independent WGSL code [10]. Replicas share topology and parameters but do not interact.
Concurrent accumulation uses paired 32-bit words to represent signed 64-bit ﬁxed-point values because WGSL
exposes 32-bit integer atomics. The implementation uses 222 counts per kcal/mol for energies, 218 counts per
kcal/mol/Å for forces, and 232 counts per Å for coordinates. This replaced 32-bit accumulators that overﬂowed
silently in highly clashed conﬁgurations and produced bit-for-bit replay for identical seeds on the tested adapter.
Integration uses velocity Verlet, seeded Langevin thermalization, and SHAKE/RATTLE. Constraint projection is
serial within a replica while replicas execute in parallel; the default relative tolerance is 10−5 with at most 32
iterations. Commands contain at most 50 steps. Persistent status words convert non-ﬁnite values, accumulator
overﬂow, coordinate clamps, and failed constraints into terminal errors. Current limits are 512 atoms per replica,
all-pairs nonbonded evaluation, and identical atom count, topology, and parameters across replicas.
Force evaluation uses a separate 32-bit ﬂoating-point coordinate working copy. Translating a test system 500 Å from
the origin changed energies by approximately 3 × 10−4 relative, identifying the working coordinate representation
rather than the ﬁxed-point store as the remaining translation-sensitivity boundary. Eliminating this source of error
requires recentering before force evaluation or a wider working representation.
Replica throughput also crosses over with workload size. In warm tests, OpenMM Reference was 13.3-fold faster for
one C16 molecule and 3.5-fold faster for one 27-water system. WebGPU was 10.3-fold faster for 1,024 C16 replicas
and 24.1-fold faster for 256 water replicas. These measurements compare aggregate replica throughput; the two
engines do not use identical integrators.


A.2     Reference-driven implementation and validation
The numerical implementation is developed against a shared executable speciﬁcation. OpenMM and the browser
kernels receive the same molecular graph, atom ordering, coordinates, parameters, units, exceptions, constraints,
and named energy terms. This enables term-resolved diﬀerential testing rather than comparison of independently
prepared end states. The implementation loop is:
1. freeze the molecular graph, atom ordering, coordinates, force-ﬁeld parameters, and units used by the reference
   calculation;
2. implement one energy/force term and its memory representation at a time;
3. evaluate the identical numerical input with OpenMM;
4. compare named energy components and Cartesian force components;


                                                        15
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



5. localize the ﬁrst discrepancy, correct it, and retain the minimal reproducing case as a regression test; and
6. execute the resulting WebGPU and WebAssembly paths in the browser to include worker, adapter, serialization,
   and UI integration boundaries.
Coding agents operate inside this harness by modifying implementation code, tests, and adapters. The physical-
model equivalence criteria—including atom order, solvent model, cutoﬀs, constraints, units, charge provenance,
and acceptable numerical tolerances—are speciﬁed explicitly and remain prerequisites for interpreting any backend
comparison.
Several observed failures led directly to architectural changes (Table 3).

                          Table 3: Observed failures that changed the implementation.

Observation                      Design change                                Retained check
                            2
Pair metadata grew as 32N        Store only exceptional pairs; mix ordinary   Large-system allocation and parity
                                 pairs on demand                              tests
32-bit force/energy sums over-   Paired-word 64-bit ﬁxed-point accumula-      Clashed system at approximately 2
ﬂowed                            tion and fault ﬂags                          million kcal/mol
Coordinates wrapped beyond       64-bit ﬁxed-point coordinate store plus      Whole-system translation to 500 Å
128 Å                            ﬂoating-point working copy
Standard cutoﬀ reduced per-      Retain for validation; omit from product     Fixed Trp-cage/ubiquitin timing pro-
formance                         controls                                     tocols
Apparent engine mismatch         Verify atom order, input hashes, and sol-    Native/WebAssembly parity and
                                 vent mode before numerical debugging         matched-solvent comparisons

Regression coverage is organized around the interfaces where failures were observed: equation-level ﬁxtures for
bonded and nonbonded terms; representation tests for clashes, constraints, overﬂow, and translated coordinates;
backend comparisons on identical prepared inputs; protein ﬁxtures that exercise special pairs and worker transfer;
browser tests for adapter support and worker recovery; and ﬁxed performance protocols that retain slower but
numerically valid designs. Fixed random seeds and stable atom identiﬁers make failing cases repeatable. The replica
engine terminates on ﬁxed-point overﬂow or unconverged constraints; the direct engine records ﬁnal constraint error
for comparison against an acceptance threshold.
The demonstrated portability boundary is ﬁxed-topology, nonperiodic molecular mechanics with regular array state
and a small number of synchronization points. WebGPU is eﬀective when work decomposes into local or pairwise op-
erations and repeated evaluations amortize dispatch. Algorithms requiring 64-bit ﬂoating-point arithmetic, frequent
device-wide synchronization, rapidly changing graphs, large adaptive sparse structures, or mature FFT/sparse-linear-
algebra libraries require a diﬀerent decomposition under current WGSL [22]. Particle-mesh Ewald electrostatics,
heterogeneous reactive systems, and some long-timescale production protocols are therefore outside the demon-
strated browser-native boundary. For those workloads, the architecture supports escalation to a WebAssembly
reference, hybrid local path, or external specialist engine while preserving the originating molecular state and
protocol provenance.


A.3     Workﬂow orchestration and local execution boundary
Molarium distinguishes local calculation from oﬄine operation. In normal connected mode, supported numerical
calculations execute on the user’s device, while explicit PDB/CCD retrieval or sequence-alignment searches contact
the services identiﬁed in the interface. Local Lab serves a reviewed, versioned checkout from localhost under a
restrictive Content Security Policy. External structure and alignment controls are disabled, and an egress-canary
test fails if a synthetic private-data marker reaches an external request. A hosted application can change the assets
served on a subsequent visit; the stronger reproducibility and privacy boundary is a reviewed checkout with locally
pinned assets.
Current workﬂow surfaces include:
• Local small-molecule design. Synchronized 2D/3D construction, graph validation, RDKit or direct-WebGPU
  calculations, aligned trajectory/energy inspection, and export. OpenMM/WebAssembly is used for internal
  validation and ﬁxed-scaﬀold operations rather than as a selectable Simulate-panel method.


                                                         16
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                  Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



• Protein–ligand pose propagation. A trusted pose is captured with stable atom lineage; changed ligand
  branches are sampled while the receptor remains ﬁxed; optional contact hypotheses constrain search; and a
  selected pose can be applied and relaxed. An experimental induced-ﬁt action releases the ligand and all atoms
  of protein residues within a 6 Å pocket shell while outer atoms remain ﬁxed.
• Agent-operated design. Agents invoke the versioned Chemist Actions API rather than arbitrary page func-
  tions. The API exposes the same bounded state-changing verbs available to a chemist—including select, edit,
  search, apply, relax, and undo—plus read-only inspection. Requests execute serially and record sequence, times-
  tamps, arguments, status, and duration.
Two extension paths are represented in the architecture but are not complete product workﬂows. A local-to-
specialist path can export a ﬁngerprinted checkpoint and explicit protocol for periodic solvent, long trajectories,
free energy, or electronic-structure calculations, with returned results attached as evidence to the originating branch;
transport, scheduling, signatures, and trust policy are not implemented. A collaborative review model can branch
by chemotype, protonation state, pose, or author and record a selected branch with explicit parentage; coordinate
averaging is not used as a merge operation.


A.4     Content-addressed molecular and decision provenance
Molarium separates operational, numerical, and decision provenance. A molecular snapshot records one explicit
state. Content-addressed commits link that state to parent states, action scripts, hypotheses, and evidence. Branches
preserve alternative design routes, and decisions record which route progressed, stopped, or was deferred. These
semantics are implemented as a custom content-addressed ledger rather than a Git repository or a general structural
merge algorithm.
The current live application retains at most 500 Chemist Actions audit records in memory; clearing the scene clears
that audit unless the relevant actions have been exported or attached to a campaign commit. The Design History
interface and public campaign.* actions can create a local campaign, atomically commit the visible molecule, create
and restore branches, record decisions, merge branch histories, and verify the append-only record. Campaign JSON
and the active branch are persisted in browser IndexedDB. Each commit contains a complete molecular snapshot; an
attached action script records the completed public operations observed since the previous commit but is explicitly
marked as incomplete coverage.

                     Table 4: Separation of operational, numerical, and decision provenance.

Record                         Question                           Contents
Chemist Actions audit          What was requested?                Public action, arguments, timing, status, and com-
                                                                  pact after-state
Calculation record             What numerical protocol ran?       Inputs, method, parameters, outputs, and hash-
                                                                  linked events
Design campaign                Why did a state advance or         Snapshots, branches, parents, hypotheses, evidence,
                               stop?                              and decisions

Canonical JSON and SHA-256 ﬁngerprints bind records to exact serialized representations. The molarium.
design-campaign/v1 schema stores snapshots, commits, branches, events, and decisions. Each commit identiﬁes
its selected snapshot, parent commit(s), optional action script, hypotheses, evidence, tags, and branch. Events
are append-only and contain the previous event ﬁngerprint, actor class (human, agent, system, or import), and
source. Supported decision states are progressed, not-progressed, deferred, failed, duplicate, superseded,
and archived. Finalization appends a completion event and hashes the campaign; subsequent record changes
fail veriﬁcation. Hashes provide alteration detection for the recorded representation, not authorship, chemical
equivalence, or scientiﬁc validity.
Registered design routes use a separate molarium.registered-design-route/v1 schema that speciﬁes the coordi-
nate boundary, hash-pinned starting state, and ordered graph edits. The SOS1, BCL-xL, and CDK2 routes use this
schema. Route actions are designRoute.load, designRoute.applyStep, and designRoute.inspect; campaign-
ledger operations remain separate. Cross-schema validation rejects a route presented as a campaign ledger or a
campaign ledger presented as a route. Frozen predictions made before the schema split retain their original in-
put hash, with migration records storing both hashes and accepting only the schema-identiﬁer substitution that


                                                          17
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



reconstructs the frozen bytes.
A decision-to-state linkage has the following form; full identiﬁers are SHA-256-derived values rather than the abbre-
viated labels shown here.
{
    "moleculeCommit": {
      "snapshotId": "snapshot:<selected-child>",
      "parents": ["commit:<parent>"],
      "actionScriptId": "script:<designer-moves>",
      "hypothesisIds": ["event:<pocket-must-open>"]
    },
    "decisionEvent": {
      "kind": "decision.recorded",
      "actorId": "chemist.01",
      "payload": {
        "targetCommitId": "commit:<selected-child>",
        "disposition": "progressed",
        "reasonCodes": ["contact-loss"],
        "rationale": "Phe-out removes growth-induced clashes.",
        "evidenceIds": ["event:<rotamer-search>"]
      }
    }
}

Executable replays use molarium.chemist-action-script/v1. Scripts contain ordered calls to the allow-listed
Chemist Actions API rather than arbitrary code or direct coordinate replacement. Designer Moves JSON ﬁles must
be smaller than 2 MB; each serialized API request and its argument object are capped at 8 MiB for ASCII JSON,
eight nested levels, and 2,048 JSON nodes. Actions can name returned stable identiﬁers for reuse by later steps.
The runner executes one action at a time through api.execute({action,args}), derives a repeatable request ID
from the script ﬁngerprint, and stops on the ﬁrst failure. Replay results use molarium.chemist-action-replay/v1
and record the source ﬁngerprint and each step outcome. Presentation actions can alter focus or styling but cannot
change molecular graph or coordinates except through the same allow-listed state-changing actions.
The SOS1 replay is identiﬁed by a stable public route and by exact release and content ﬁngerprints. A human-
readable URL can resolve to a newer release, whereas the release commit, route-ﬁle ﬁngerprint, and canonical
action-script ﬁngerprint identify the reviewed bytes and normalized JSON content. The live workﬂow can capture a
starting state, record exploration actions, apply and relax selected states, and export action and numerical records.
Formal campaign commits and decision events are represented by the ledger layer described above.


A.5      SOS1 hit-to-BAY-293 executable replay
The SOS1 example follows the analogue series reported by Hillig and colleagues [30]. The supplied design information
consisted of the 5OVE/AXE coordinate-bearing starting complex and the published analogue graphs for AWT,
AWZ, AWW, and AXH. The later analogue poses and receptor conformations were withheld during prediction.
Each analogue was propagated from the preceding frozen prediction rather than from its corresponding later crystal
structure.
The selected route contains 33 recorded API actions: 29 molecular or protocol operations and four workspace
switches. The full exploration audit contains 89 completed API calls, including three Phe890/pose branches, nine
undo calls, and deterministic reselection. The rendered interface sequence adds 16 display-only actions for 49 replay
steps. Later crystal structures were opened only after four prediction checkpoints and the exploration audit had
been hashed. Display and focus actions are non-mutating.
The analogue transitions involve substantial graph rewrites while preserving explicit atom lineage (Table 5).
Each “64-chain” search comprises 64 independently seeded local pose searches, distributed over eight browser workers
in the recorded replay. Parameterization without motion assigns the numerical force-ﬁeld representation while
preserving coordinates; only the subsequent relaxation changes coordinates. The SOS1 route uses whole-system
Sage 2.1.0 with deterministic Gasteiger charges. AWT, AWZ, AWW, and AXH contain 7,929, 7,933, 7,935, and
7,937 particles, respectively. This charge assignment is part of the recorded protocol and is distinct from standard


                                                         18
Molarium — Appendix A                                                               Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



                    Table 5: Heavy-atom lineage across the supplied SOS1 analogue graphs.

                    Transition     Retained      Deleted     Added    Candidate mappings
                    AXE–AWT                23           4         6                          4
                    AWT–AWZ                19          10        12                          1
                    AWZ–AWW                16          15        15                          1
                    AWW–AXH                15          16        17                          1


Sage workﬂows using AM1-BCC or NAGL charges.
Before ﬂexible relaxation, Molarium stores ligand bond lengths and rejects a relaxed pose if any heavy-atom bond
is both more than 0.45 Å longer and 1.25-fold its assigned target, or both more than 0.35 Å shorter and below
0.75-fold its target. Rejected relaxation restores the previous pose rather than accepting an improved score with a
broken molecular geometry.

Table 6: Sequence of molecular states in the SOS1 replay. Predictions, rather than future crystal structures, seed
the next step.

Step      Operation                       State/evidence
0         Load and prepare                5OVE/AXE only; capture the compound 1 reference and coordinate
                                          boundary
1         Rewrite to compound 17          Search independent reference-guided poses; apply the selected pose; pa-
          (AWT)                           rameterize; relax
2         Rewrite to compound 18          Propagate from predicted AWT, not 5OVF; apply, parameterize, relax
          (AWZ)
3         Grow compound 21 (AWW)          New ring enters the Phe890-in volume; ﬁxed-core representative gains
                                          four clashes
4         Resolve pocket state            Enumerate discrete Phe890 rotamers; select outward branch; retain the
                                          moved receptor as the next reference
5         Predict BAY-293 (AXH)           Grow from frozen AWW; 64-chain pose search; apply; parameterize with-
                                          out motion; relax; freeze
6         Evaluate holdouts               Compare AWT/AWZ/AWW/BAY-293 with 5OVF/5OVG/5OVH/5OVI

The Phe890 conformational step is treated as a discrete state search because local minimization does not reliably
cross the relevant side-chain torsional barrier. Separate rotamer basins are generated before local ligand–pocket
relaxation. Feasible branches are ranked ﬁrst by clashes introduced by ligand growth, then by pose score and ﬁnite
relaxed energy. The nominal −60◦ branch adds four clashes above the ﬁxed-core baseline and is rejected; the −180◦
branch adds none and is selected; the +60◦ branch adds two and remains feasible. The outward Phe890 χ1 basin
is therefore selected before 5OVH or 5OVI is revealed.
For post-freeze structural evaluation, predicted receptors are aligned to their holdouts using 23, 25, 25, and 27
pocket Cα atoms for AWT through AXH. Ligand RMSD is then calculated over 29, 31, 31, and 32 heavy atoms,
minimizing over 2, 1, 1, and 1 graph-symmetry mappings, respectively; the ligand itself is not ﬁtted. Results are
reported in Table 7.

Table 7: Post-freeze structural evaluation. Torsions are predicted/crystal in degrees; ligand RMSD is receptor-
aligned and graph-symmetry-minimized.

              Prediction      Holdout    Ligand RMSD (Å)          Phe890 χ1         Phe890 χ2
              AWT             5OVF       0.516                    -77.6 / -71.5     -71.7 / -71.7
              AWZ             5OVG       1.528                    -73.4 / -75.6     -92.0 / -87.9
              AWW             5OVH       2.137                    -172.2 / +175.8   +116.1 / +76.3
              BAY-293         5OVI       1.215                    -172.4 / -166.5   +108.7 / +71.7

The replay recovers the experimentally observed outward Phe890 χ1 basin before exposure to 5OVH or 5OVI.


                                                        19
Molarium — Appendix A                                                               Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



The terminal χ2 orientation is less accurate, diﬀering by approximately 40◦ for AWW and 37◦ for BAY-293. The
corresponding ligand RMSDs range from 0.516 to 2.137 Å under receptor-aligned, symmetry-minimized evaluation.
The interface replay executes from a blank canvas through the public Chemist Actions API. Pose and rotamer
generation leave coordinates unchanged until an explicit Apply action. The replay therefore represents discrete
state transitions rather than interpolated trajectories or molecular dynamics. Its 48-action rendered sequence lasts
69.25 s while the action audit records approximately 420.7 s of operation durations; timing remains attached to
the audit and render manifest, and the rendered sequence is not used as a performance benchmark. Comparison of
fragment-bound 6EPM with the 5OVE starting structure shows that the inhibitory Tyr884 arrangement is already
present at the coordinate boundary; the hit-only route does not predict a Tyr884 transition.




                                                        20
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                 Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



                                              APPENDIX B
 Working with Molarium: scientiﬁc workﬂows for humans
                     and agents

Molarium is designed so that a scientist working through the graphical interface and an agent operating through the
Chemist Actions API act on the same molecular state and encounter the same scientiﬁc boundaries. This appendix
therefore describes Molarium by scientiﬁc task, not by software module.
Each workﬂow begins with the question a scientist is trying to answer. The human procedure explains how to perform
the task and what to inspect before accepting the result. The accompanying agent skill contract expresses the
same procedure as preconditions, permitted actions, evidence, success criteria, and stopping conditions. The two
views are intentionally paired: a procedure should be understandable by a scientist and suﬃciently explicit that an
agent cannot silently change its meaning.
Implementation basis. This appendix describes the inspected browser implementation prepared on 2 September
2026 for the public Molarium release. It distinguishes current browser behavior from executable but experimental
behavior. Repository-only and proposed functionality is not presented as an operating instruction. User-facing
workspace names are View, Design, and Simulate; the serialized values remain view, build, and run so existing
action scripts remain replayable.

B.1    One molecular state, two interfaces
Status. Current browser surface.
The question. What changes the molecule, and what merely changes how I am looking at it?
Molarium separates the authoritative molecular state from the interface used to manipulate it. A scientist can work
in View, Design, and Simulate; an agent can invoke the same guarded scientiﬁc operations through the versioned
Chemist Actions API. Both routes act on the same graph, coordinates, selections, calculation records, and pending
chemistry transaction. Browser-native transport—choosing a local ﬁle, writing to the clipboard, downloading a
ﬁle, or entering fullscreen—remains outside the molecular API; the state-changing operation before or after that
boundary has a named action.
Rotating the camera, changing a representation, focusing a component, or showing contacts changes only the
presentation. Loading a structure, applying a protonation state, ﬁnishing a chemistry transaction, accepting a
docking candidate, running a coordinate-producing Simulate job, or selecting or playing a saved calculation frame
changes the current coordinates or graph. Reﬁned-pose and side-chain alternatives remain candidates until explicitly
applied.
The common operating rule. Inspect, act, verify. Generate alternatives freely, but change the authoritative
molecular state deliberately. A valid operation is not automatically a scientiﬁcally appropriate one; acceptance still
depends on the question being asked.

Starting from a structure
Start with ?blank when a reproducible workﬂow should begin from an empty canvas. Otherwise the application
loads its bundled launch molecule. A structure can be pasted as XYZ or PDB text, uploaded as XYZ or PDB,
entered as a SMILES string or PDB identiﬁer in connected mode, or selected from the prepared examples. The
current upload router should not be relied on for ordinary MOL-ﬁle ingestion, even though a V2000 parser exists
elsewhere in the application.
After loading, inspect atom count, formula, formal charge, connected components, graph connectivity, and the 3D
structure. For a selected small-molecule component, compare the synchronized 2D depiction with the 3D graph. For
PDB input, remember that only the ﬁrst model is loaded and alternate locations are resolved by the implemented
occupancy policy. For XYZ input, bonds are inferred from proximity and should be checked rather than assumed.

State and persistence
Loading a new molecule resets incompatible calculation, docking, selection, and preparation state. The working
session is in memory: Clear, page reload, or script import can discard unsaved work. Share copies a URL rather
than serializing the current molecule, and Save produces a PNG rather than a reusable molecular record. Export


                                                         21
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



the scientiﬁc record needed by the next step before replacing or clearing the scene.
Agent skill contract: operate_molecular_state

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Load and inspect a starting structure without confusing a visual change, candidate, or imported
                       approximation with an accepted molecular state.
Preconditions          A supported input or prepared example is available; connected-mode requirements are known.
Inputs                 Input type and contents; intended component; optional network policy; requested inspection ﬁelds.
Procedure              Start blank when reproducibility requires it; load through a supported route; inspect graph,
                       components, charge, and coordinates; report ambiguities before any mutation.
State mutation         A successful load replaces the current molecule and resets dependent state. View and selection
                       operations do not alter graph chemistry.
Evidence               Source identity or input hash where available; atom/component summary; explicit warnings about
                       inferred bonds, alternate locations, or network retrieval.
Success                The loaded graph and coordinates correspond to the intended starting object and all material
                       ambiguities have been surfaced.
On failure             Leave the prior scene in place where the interface does so; report the parse, fetch, or format error;
                       do not reinterpret an unsupported ﬁle silently.
Boundary               No autosave or complete-session archive; an image or share link is not a reusable molecular state.


Structure text, identiﬁers, and prepared examples have explicit loading actions. A local ﬁle picker only supplies
bytes to session.loadStructure; it is not an alternate molecular loader:
await api.execute({action:"session.loadStructure", args:{
  format:"pdb", content:pdbText, name:"starting complex"}})
// alternatives:
await api.execute({action:"session.loadIdentifier",
  args:{value:"5OVE", kind:"pdb"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.loadFixture",
  args:{fixtureId:"trp-cage"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"all", includeCoordinates:false, maximumAtoms:500}})
await api.execute({action:"view.setDisplay",
  args:{representation:"both", showHydrogens:false,
        showPocketAtoms:true, showInteractions:true}})

Registered prospective routes and public structure stories retain their narrower guarded loaders (designRoute.load
and structureStory.load).

B.2    Prepare a protein for local molecular design
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. I have an experimental protein structure. What must happen before I can safely edit a ligand or
run a local calculation?
A deposited PDB structure is not automatically a simulation-ready system. Atoms may be missing, alternate
locations may have been chosen, protonation can be ambiguous, crystallographic waters may or may not matter,
and ligands or unusual residues may exceed the supported parameterization. Molarium’s preparation workﬂow is
deliberately conservative: it makes a bounded set of assumptions explicit, performs repairs it knows how to perform,
and stops when the structure exceeds those capabilities.

Human workﬂow
 1. Load the PDB structure and inspect the protein, ligand, waters, other components, and the region around the
    intended binding site before preparing anything.
 2. Open Protein Preparation. Choose pH, histidine policy, supported missing-heavy-atom repair, ligand treat-
    ment, water treatment, and gap policy.



                                                           22
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                   Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



 3. Run Prepare structure. Molarium constructs an internal preview that inventories residues, missing atoms,
    sequence gaps, ligands, waters, clashes, and invalid coordinates. Within scope, it can retrieve CCD information,
    reconstruct supported missing side-chain atoms, add standard hydrogens and terminal oxygen, choose histidine
    states, and scan polar-hydrogen orientations.
 4. An unresolved blocker stops the operation and exposes the preview for review. A blocker-free preview is
    immediately parameterized and applied; there is no normal second Apply step.
 5. Inspect every applied change, warning, and attached audit. Download the preparation report if the decisions
    must survive the browser session.

What should I inspect?
• Ligand identity, connectivity, completeness, and whether it should be retained or excluded.
• Histidine and other local protonation choices near the ligand or catalytic region.
• Crystallographic waters that bridge interactions or deﬁne the local geometry.
• Missing atoms, chain breaks, unresolved regions, reconstructed geometry, and severe clashes near the region of
  interest.
• Whether the resulting force-ﬁeld and charge assumptions match the scientiﬁc question.
Acceptance is narrower than success. A clean preview means Molarium completed its declared preparation
procedure. It does not certify a production molecular-dynamics system. The implementation explicitly records
readyForProductionSimulation: false.
Preparation blocks unsupported residues, unsupported missing atoms, incomplete retained ligands, disallowed gaps,
invalid coordinates, and severe clashes. It does not currently construct missing loops or membranes, model general
metal coordination, parameterize covalent ligands, or build periodic explicit-solvent boxes. Arbitrary proteins use
an experimental Sage/Gasteiger route.
Agent skill contract: prepare_protein

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Convert the loaded PDB into an explicitly reviewed molecular state suitable for a supported local
                       Molarium calculation.
Preconditions          A PDB-derived structure is loaded; the intended downstream use is known; ligand and water roles
                       can be reviewed.
Inputs                 pH; histidine policy; missing-heavy-atom repair policy; ligand policy; water policy; gap policy.
Procedure              Inspect the starting structure; run preparation; review any blocking preview or the applied result;
                       export the report when persistence matters; stop on unresolved blockers.
State mutation         Prepared graph and coordinates replace the prior state; preparation audit and parameterization
                       are attached; one undo snapshot is created.
Evidence               Options, detected issues, repairs, warnings and blockers, preparation report, and resulting
                       parameterization identity.
Success                The declared procedure completes without unresolved blockers and its scope matches the intended
                       local calculation.
Failure behavior       Report the blocker and stop. Do not manufacture missing atoms, parameters, loop geometry, or
                       unsupported chemistry.
Escalate when          The problem requires loops, membranes, metal coordination, covalent chemistry, periodic solvent,
                       or another unsupported preparation capability.
Does not establish     Production simulation readiness or physical accuracy of the chosen downstream model.


Representative public actions are:
await api.execute({action:"protein.prepare", args:{
  pH:7.4, histidine:"auto", repairMissingHeavy:true,
  ligandPolicy:"ccd", waterPolicy:"crucial", gapPolicy:"block"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:false, maximumAtoms:500}})

The preparation action already parameterizes and applies a blocker-free result. protein.parameterize is a separate
alternative for an already prepared or subsequently edited complex, not the next mandatory call. The exact


                                                          23
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                   Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



argument vocabulary returned by api.describe() is the runtime authority; this sequence illustrates the contract
rather than replacing that manifest.

B.3    Choose the protonation state you are designing
Status. Current ligand workﬂow; protein choices within experimental preparation.
The question. What charged and protonated species does the molecular graph actually represent?
Protonation is part of chemical identity, not a cosmetic display choice. It changes formal charge, hydrogen count,
hydrogen-bonding patterns, parameterization, and often the meaning of every calculation that follows. Molarium
exposes two related but distinct workﬂows: ligand-state enumeration through RDKit, and protein protonation
decisions inside the bounded PDB-preparation workﬂow.
Ligand workﬂow
 1. Load the ligand from a SMILES string or select the ligand component whose identity you intend to change.
 2. Choose a pH from 0 to 14 and enumerate candidate states. RDKit applies a versioned Dimorphite-style site
    table, edits formal charges and hydrogens, sanitizes each result, and returns an ordered list with estimated
    weights.
 3. Inspect each candidate as chemistry: total charge, changed atoms, tautomeric or aromatic consequences, and
    compatibility with known assay conditions or the bound environment.
 4. Apply one state deliberately. Molarium re-embeds the chosen species, replaces the graph and coordinates, and
    invalidates state that depended on the former topology.

Protein workﬂow
For a PDB structure, set the pH and histidine policy during preparation. The implemented policies include auto-
matic selection or explicit HID, HIE, and HIP choices, followed by inspection of polar-hydrogen orientations. Treat
residues near a ligand, metal, catalytic center, or salt-bridge network as scientiﬁc decisions rather than defaults.
What the reported ligand weights mean. They are independent Henderson-Hasselbalch estimates from the
implemented site model. They are not microscopic pKa predictions, coupled-site populations, or evidence for the
state selected by a protein binding site.
Agent skill contract: select_protonation_state

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Make the intended protonation and formal-charge state explicit before editing or calculation.
Preconditions          A valid ligand or PDB structure is loaded; the relevant pH or experimental condition is known or
                       stated as an assumption.
Inputs                 pH; candidate-state selection; for proteins, histidine policy and local residues requiring review.
Procedure              Enumerate or preview; compare candidates; inspect charge and local interactions; apply exactly
                       one accepted state; re-inspect the resulting graph.
State mutation         Applying a ligand state replaces graph and coordinates. Protein protonation changes are
                       committed through preparation. Prior parameterization becomes obsolete.
Evidence               pH, enumeration or preparation output, chosen state, total charge, changed sites, and stated
                       rationale when more than one state is plausible.
Success                The authoritative graph explicitly represents the intended state and downstream methods will see
                       the corresponding atoms and charges.
On failure             Report invalid pH, sanitization, embedding, or worker errors; do not partially apply or choose a
                       diﬀerent state merely because it runs.
Boundary               Enumeration weights do not resolve coupled microscopic states or protein-induced pKa shifts.


Ligand-state enumeration and application use the same bounded worker and graph replacement as the visible pH
controls:
await api.execute({action:"ligand.enumerateProtonation",
  args:{pH:7.4, maximumStates:16}})
await api.execute({action:"ligand.applyProtonation", args:{index:0}})


                                                          24
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                  Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"ligand", includeCoordinates:false}})

Enumeration does not select a chemically correct state. The chosen index remains a reviewable scientiﬁc decision;
protein protonation is carried separately within protein.prepare.

B.4      Edit atoms, bonds, charges, and stereochemistry in 3D
Status. Current browser surface.
The question. How do I change the chemistry without corrupting the molecular graph or losing the ability to undo
the operation?
The synchronized 2D and 3D views are two ways of selecting the same graph. Chemistry-changing actions are
grouped into a transaction so that a related set of edits can be validated and committed as one scientiﬁc step.
Protein covalent atoms are protected from ordinary ligand editing.
Human workﬂow
 1. Enter Design and select the relevant atom or bond in either view. Conﬁrm the stable atom identity and local
    environment before changing it.
 2. Apply the intended element replacement, bond order or aromaticity change, formal charge, explicit hydrogen,
    or stereochemical operation. Related operations remain in one pending chemistry transaction.
 3. For coordinate-only geometry changes, select a connected path of two, three, or four atoms to set a distance,
    angle, or dihedral. Molarium moves the connected side deﬁned by the graph and blocks ambiguous ring cuts.
 4. Choose Finish chemistry. RDKit sanitizes the graph, hydrogens are reconciled, eligible local coordinates
    are polished, reference contacts are remapped where applicable, obsolete parameterization is invalidated, and a
    single undo snapshot is created.
 5. If validation fails, correct the still-pending transaction or choose Discard to restore the pre-edit state. Use
    Undo/Redo only after a transaction has been committed.

What should I inspect?
• Valence, formal charge, aromaticity, hydrogen count, stereochemistry, and the intended bond topology.
• Whether the 2D depiction and 3D graph agree after sanitization.
• New close contacts, distorted local geometry, and movement outside the edited region.
• Whether topology-dependent records—parameterization, docking mapping, or calculation results—were invali-
  dated or remapped as expected.
A synchronous mutation error restores the transaction snapshot. If the chemistry is valid but optional coordinate
polishing fails, the valid graph can remain committed and the cleanup error is recorded. Fused-aromatic edits that
cannot preserve the aromatic graph are rejected rather than approximated.
Distance, angle, dihedral, atom translation, and graph-chemistry controls all have named actions. A representative
graph edit follows; coordinate-only edits use geometry.setInternalCoordinate or geometry.translateAtoms
and remain separate from chemistry.finish.
Agent skill contract: edit_molecular_graph

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Apply an explicit, reviewable graph or local-geometry change while preserving atomic lineage and
                       undoability.
Preconditions          The intended editable component is identiﬁed; no unrelated transaction is pending; the target
                       atoms or bond are unambiguous.
Inputs                 Selected stable atom identiﬁers; edit type and value; optional connected geometry path; intended
                       transaction boundary.
Procedure              Inspect target; open or join a transaction; apply supported edits; ﬁnish once; inspect sanitized
                       graph and local coordinates.
                                                                                              Continued on next page



                                                         25
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



Contract element        Requirement
State mutation          Graph edits remain provisional until Finish. Finish commits one new state and invalidates
                        obsolete parameterization; Discard restores the starting state.
Evidence                Pre-edit identity, ordered public actions, changed atoms and bonds, sanitization outcome, cleanup
                        outcome, and ﬁnal inspection.
Success                 The ﬁnal graph encodes the intended chemistry, sanitizes successfully, and passes local visual and
                        structural checks.
On failure              Keep the transaction pending for correction or discard it. Never bypass sanitization or inject
                        coordinates directly.
Boundary                Local graph validity does not establish synthetic feasibility, tautomer preference, binding aﬃnity,
                        or global conformational plausibility.


await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"build.setTool", args:{tool:"select"}})
await api.execute({action:"selection.replace", args:{atomIds:[anchorId]}})
await api.execute({action:"chemistry.addAtom",
  args:{attachedToAtomId:anchorId, element:"Cl"}})
await api.execute({action:"chemistry.finish", args:{}})
await api.execute({action:"geometry.setInternalCoordinate",
  args:{atomIds:[a,b,c,d], value:172.0, moveConnected:true}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"ligand", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:200}})

The serialized value build selects the user-facing Design workspace; it is retained for action-script compatibility.

B.5    Grow an analogue by adding and positioning fragments
Status. Current Design workspace; pose-aware extensions experimental.
The question. How do I add the substituent I have in mind while preserving the useful context of the parent
structure?
Fragment growth combines a graph edit with an initial 3D placement. Those are separate scientiﬁc problems: the new
molecule must ﬁrst be chemically correct, and its coordinates must then be a plausible starting point for relaxation
or pose maintenance. Molarium’s Design workspace stages a fragment template and applies its attachment as one
undoable edit. Subsequent atom, bond, charge, hydrogen, or stereochemical changes use the pending chemistry
transaction described above.
Human workﬂow
 1. If the parent is bound and its pose matters, capture the reference pose before beginning the topology change.
    Retain any explicit core or interaction choices needed for later pose maintenance.
 2. Select the ligand attachment atom and stage the desired fragment or template. Conﬁrm which atoms are new,
    which parent atom remains the anchor, and which bond is to be formed.
 3. Apply the attachment as one undoable fragment edit. Perform any associated leaving-group, bond-order, formal-
    charge, hydrogen, or stereochemical changes as a subsequent pending chemistry transaction.
 4. Use distance, angle, and dihedral controls to give the new group a sensible initial orientation. These controls
    establish a starting geometry; they do not score the binding site.
 5. Finish any subsequent pending chemistry, then inspect the attachment, local valence, stereochemistry, ring
    geometry, clashes, and preserved parent coordinates. Relax the structure or invoke reference-guided pose main-
    tenance as a separate step.

How should I judge the result?
A successful fragment operation means that the intended graph was built and sanitized. It does not mean that the
chosen rotamer, ring conformation, or pocket orientation is preferred. For a solvent-exposed edit, local minimization
may be enough to remove construction strain. For an edit that changes pocket contacts or releases a ring, use a
workﬂow that samples alternatives and retains the relationship to the experimental reference.
Enumeration boundary. Development modules can represent bounded edit plans, but general combinatorial


                                                           26
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                    Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



enumeration, library management, automated campaign selection, and automatic MCS transfer of an independently
imported analogue are not current workbench workﬂows.
Agent skill contract: grow_fragment

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Construct one intended analogue and a reviewable starting geometry while retaining parent atom
                       lineage and, when requested, reference-pose context.
Preconditions          Editable ligand and attachment atom identiﬁed; fragment chemistry speciﬁed; reference captured
                       ﬁrst if pose continuity matters.
Inputs                 Parent and attachment atom identiﬁers; fragment/template; new bond; associated deletions,
                       charge or stereochemical edits; optional geometry targets.
Procedure              Capture reference if needed; stage and attach the fragment; perform and ﬁnish any associated
                       atom/bond transaction; set only the geometry needed for a starting pose; inspect; relax or sample
                       separately.
State mutation         Attachment commits the fragment graph and an undo snapshot immediately. Finishing a later
                       atom/bond transaction commits those additional changes. A later pose or optimization changes
                       coordinates separately.
Evidence               Parent and product inspection, atom mapping, edit actions, transaction outcome, initial placement
                       rationale, and any preserved reference/contact record.
Success                The attached analogue graph is correct on inspection; any subsequent chemistry transaction is
                       sanitized; the initial geometry has no obvious construction pathology and is suitable for the chosen
                       next workﬂow.
On failure             A failed attachment leaves the prior molecule in place. Correct or discard any subsequent pending
                       chemistry transaction. Do not treat failed cleanup as permission to accept an invalid graph or
                       arbitrary pose.
Boundary               Fragment growth is not combinatorial design, synthesis planning, global docking, or proof that the
                       new group is energetically favored.


Generic fragment-template staging and attachment use fragment.stage and fragment.attach; individual atom-
/bond edits and registered designRoute.applyStep operations remain available. For a registered, hash-pinned
prospective route, an agent can stage a predeﬁned product graph. attachmentAtomId is required only when that
route declares designer-directed spatialIntent; the SOS1 route does not:
await api.execute({action:"fragment.stage",
  args:{smiles:"c1ccncc1", name:"pyridyl", attachmentIndex:0}})
await api.execute({action:"fragment.attach",
  args:{attachedToAtomId:anchorId}})

await api.execute({action:"designRoute.load",
  args:{routeId:"sos1-hit-only"}})
await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"protein.prepare", args:{
  pH:7.4, histidine:"auto", repairMissingHeavy:true,
  ligandPolicy:"ccd", waterPolicy:"retain", gapPolicy:"cap"}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.captureReference",
  args:{mode:"propagate"}})
await api.execute({action:"designRoute.applyStep",
  args:{stepId:"scaffold-rewrite"}})
await api.execute({action:"designRoute.inspect", args:{}})

Registered routes constrain prospective inputs and permitted edits; they are not retrospective campaign ledgers.

B.6      Relax a structure, run bounded dynamics, and inspect motion
Status. Current and experimental methods with diﬀerent scopes.
The question. I have made a structure. Does its geometry survive relaxation, and what moves during a short
calculation?


                                                          27
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                       Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



Choose the method from the scientiﬁc question, not from a generic expectation that every engine answers the same
thing. Molarium exposes several numerical pathways whose energies are not interchangeable. Record the selected
model, solvent, constraints, and protocol before interpreting the result.

       Question                   Method         What it provides                     Principal boundary
       Small-molecule cleanup     RDKit          Energy, geometry optimization,       The reported 0.1 fs dynamics
       or short force-ﬁeld mo-                   and short dynamics using the         path is a workbench calculation,
       tion                                      RDKit force-ﬁeld path.               not a production trajectory.
       Sage energy,      relax-   Direct   We-   Browser-GPU energy, forces, ge-      Experimental; f32; direct dynam-
       ation,    or bounded       bGPU           ometry, and saved frames from        ics capped at 5,000 steps; no PBC
       single-system MD                          the numeric Sage system.             or PME.
       Many replicas of one       WebGPU en-     Homogeneous replica dynamics         Experimental; at most 512 atoms
       topology                   semble         with energies, frames, timing,       per replica, 1,024 replicas, and
                                                 and constraint diagnostics.          100,000 steps; nonperiodic all-
                                                                                      pairs model.
       Electronic energy or ge-   ANI-2x         Eight-model ANI-2x ensemble          Experimental; connected neu-
       ometry for an eligible                    energy, spread, analytical forces,   tral singlets with explicit H;
       neutral molecule                          and optional optimized coordi-       H/C/N/O/S/F/Cl only; at most
                                                 nates.                               96 atoms.
       Reference calculation      OpenMM 8.2     Double-precision internal pa-        Internal subsystem,        not a
       inside another workﬂow     Reference      rameterization, scoring, relax-      selectable    general     Simulate
                                                 ation, and validation path.          method.



Human workﬂow
 1. Finish any pending chemistry. Conﬁrm that the molecule is eligible for the chosen engine and, where required,
    can be completely parameterized.
 2. In Simulate, choose the job and compatible method. Set the step count, vacuum or OBC2/ACE implicit
    solvent, X-H constraints where supported, saved frames, and ensemble options.
 3. Run once. Inspect the engine or model identity, force ﬁeld, charge model, solvent, constraints, initial and ﬁnal
    energy, convergence or diagnostic status, elapsed time, and all warnings.
 4. For dynamics, step through saved frames or replicas and inspect the region relevant to the design question.
    Display alignment does not overwrite raw calculation coordinates.
 5. Review or export coordinates only when the result passes the declared acceptance check. Coordinate-producing
    jobs immediately update the current coordinates when they complete, and selecting or playing a saved frame
    writes that frame into the current molecule. Export the starting coordinates ﬁrst when reversibility matters.
    Current-frame XYZ is available; saved frames are a bounded sample, and the workbench has no generic full-
    trajectory-ﬁle export.

Interpreting the model
Automatic Sage parameterization uses deterministic Gasteiger charges rather than AM1-BCC or NAGL. Unsup-
ported elements, invalid chemistry, or missing required parameters fail instead of silently dropping terms. The
exposed workﬂows are nonperiodic and do not provide PME, a barostat, explicit-solvent setup, generic production
protein simulation, or binding free energy.
Agent skill contract: relax_or_simulate

Contract element         Requirement
Goal                     Use a declared numerical model to test local geometry or bounded motion and retain enough
                         metadata to interpret the result.
Preconditions            No chemistry transaction is pending; method eligibility and complete parameterization are
                         established; an acceptance observable is speciﬁed.
Inputs                   Job; method; steps; solvent; constraints; saved frames; ﬁxed or movable atoms where supported;
                         ensemble settings.
                                                                                                    Continued on next page


                                                            28
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                    Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



Contract element       Requirement
Procedure              Validate eligibility; record model and protocol; export the starting coordinates when reversibility
                       matters; run one compatible job; inspect energies, diagnostics, and frames.
State mutation         Energy jobs do not move the molecule. Successful coordinate-producing jobs immediately replace
                       current coordinates, and selecting a saved frame also writes current coordinates; raw frames
                       remain calculation records.
Evidence               Engine/model version and hashes where recorded, force ﬁeld, charge model, solvent, constraints,
                       timestep, energies, convergence/diagnostics, timing, frames, and warnings.
Success                The worker returns a ﬁnite, internally valid result and the predeﬁned structural check is satisﬁed
                       within the method’s declared scope.
On failure             Keep the prior graph and coordinates; record the returned error; correct eligibility, options, or
                       assets before retrying.
Boundary               A minimized pose or short stable trace is not an aﬃnity estimate, equilibrium ensemble,
                       free-energy calculation, or production trajectory.


The current public API exposes a bounded Design optimizer:
await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"optimization.run",
  args:{method:"induced-fit-webgpu"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:500}})

General Simulate jobs use calculation.run; the action accepts only the installed engine/job combinations and the
same bounded options as the interface. Selecting a returned frame is explicit because it writes those coordinates
into the current molecule:
await api.execute({action:"calculation.run", args:{
  job:"dynamics", method:"stormm",
  options:{stormmSystem:"current", steps:1000,
           savedFrameCount:20, replicaCount:32}}})
await api.execute({action:"calculation.selectFrame", args:{index:19}})


B.7    Explore conformations with Conformer Arena
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. What other conformations can this molecule adopt, and how sensitive is the answer to the generation
and reﬁnement method?
Conformer search is an alternative-generation problem. Molarium separates seed generation, physical reﬁnement,
clustering, comparison, and selection so that a low-energy-looking structure is not confused with proof that the
ensemble is complete or Boltzmann weighted.

Human workﬂow
 1. Start from a chemically ﬁnished small molecule with explicit hydrogens and a sensible protonation state. Recen-
    ter the structure before tight STORMM positional comparisons, because ﬁxed-point spatial precision degrades
    far from the working origin.
 2. Choose WebGPU ensemble and Conformer search. Set the requested conformer count, eﬀort, clustering
    cutoﬀ, solvent/constraint options, and whether to open the comparison arena.
 3. Molarium generates deterministic RDKit conformer seeds, up to the implemented cap of 256. The STORMM
    protocol then performs staged relaxation, heating at 600 K, cooling through 450 K and 300 K, and ﬁnal
    relaxation across homogeneous replicas.
 4. Inspect the returned ensemble before selecting a representative: energy range, distinct RMSD clusters, cluster
    populations, recurring torsions, ring states, constraint diagnostics, and obvious duplicates or failures.
 5. Use Conformer Arena to compare supported pathways on the same molecule and settings. Ask whether the
    methods discover the same basins, not merely whether they rank one shared conformer similarly.
 6. Select a conformer only after inspection. Selection changes the displayed/current coordinates. Export the
    ensemble as SDF when it ﬁts V2000 record limits; retain method and clustering metadata separately.


                                                           29
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



What does the result establish?
The workﬂow shows which basins the declared ﬁnite search found and how the supported methods behaved on
that search. The anneal/minimize protocol is a search heuristic, so replica counts and cluster frequencies are not
thermodynamic populations. Failure to ﬁnd a conformation is not evidence that it is inaccessible, and energy
diﬀerences from diﬀerent force ﬁelds are not directly comparable.
Agent skill contract: explore_conformers

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Generate, reﬁne, cluster, and compare a ﬁnite set of conformational alternatives for one molecular
                       topology.
Preconditions          Chemistry and protonation are ﬁnalized; molecule is eligible; intended use and comparison metric
                       are stated.
Inputs                 Conformer count; eﬀort; cluster cutoﬀ; seed; solvent and constraints; arena choice; acceptance or
                       diversity criteria.
Procedure              Generate RDKit seeds; run declared reﬁnement protocol; cluster and inspect; compare basins in
                       Arena when requested; select or export without rewriting raw records.
State mutation         Search produces an ensemble and raw calculation evidence. Selecting a frame or conformer writes
                       its coordinates into the current molecule.
Evidence               Seed and method identity, requested and returned counts, energies, cluster assignments,
                       diagnostics, timings, and exported ensemble where applicable.
Success                A ﬁnite set of valid, distinct candidates is produced and its diversity is suﬃcient for the stated
                       downstream purpose.
On failure             Report parameterization, eligibility, replica, overﬂow, or pair-work limits; reduce scope or escalate
                       rather than hiding missing replicas.
Boundary               Not exhaustive conformational sampling, a Boltzmann ensemble, solution free energies, or proof of
                       bioactive-conformation probability.


Conformer search and Arena use calculation.run; result selection uses calculation.selectConformer. Arena
axes, ﬁltering, and sorting are presentation controls exposed through calculation.setConformerView; they do
not create new conformers:
await api.execute({action:"calculation.run", args:{
  job:"conformers", method:"stormm",
  options:{conformerCount:32, conformerEffort:"standard",
           conformerClusterRms:0.75, conformerArena:true}}})
await api.execute({action:"calculation.selectConformer", args:{rank:0}})


B.8      Predict a short single-chain protein structure
Status. Experimental current surface; connected mode only.
The question. Can Molarium create a protein structure from sequence, and is this the co-folding workﬂow?
This is not currently co-folding. The implemented workﬂow predicts one protein entity from one sequence. It
does not accept a ligand for joint protein-ligand prediction, does not predict a multimer, and does not maintain a
starting ligand pose. Calling it co-folding would overstate the present capability.
The Fold Protein panel combines a conﬁgured remote MSA service with local OpenFold ONNX inference. The
sequence is transmitted to the selected MSA endpoint; model inference then runs in the browser, preferring WebGPU
and falling back to WASM. Local Lab disables the external MSA path.

Human workﬂow
 1. Enter one amino-acid sequence using the standard residue alphabet or X. The current maximum length is 128
    residues, using 64- or 128-residue feature buckets.
 2. Inspect and accept the conﬁgured MSA endpoint and network boundary. First use may require approximately
    540 MB of model assets.
 3. Run and monitor MSA and inference progress. The current browser model executes three recycle passes; this
    count is not user-conﬁgurable. Cancel aborts the active MSA/prediction controller.


                                                           30
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                    Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



 4. On success, Molarium loads the prediction as the current molecule. Inspect chain completeness, residue mapping,
    gross geometry, and suitability for the downstream question before replacing other work.
 5. Export the predicted structure as PDB if it must persist. Preparation and local relaxation are separate decisions.
The current path does not use templates or perform Amber relaxation. It creates no server-side job ledger. Fetch,
archive, feature, model, or inference failure produces no partial prediction. A returned structure is a model output,
not experimental evidence or a prepared simulation system.
Agent skill contract: predict_protein_structure

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Predict coordinates for one short protein sequence using the declared MSA service and local
                       OpenFold model.
Preconditions          Connected mode; conﬁgured MSA endpoint; sequence length at most 128; network and
                       model-asset use accepted.
Inputs                 One sequence and MSA endpoint; the current model uses three recycle passes.
Procedure              Validate sequence; disclose external transmission; obtain and validate MSA; run the matching
                       ONNX bucket; inspect result; export before replacing it.
State mutation         A successful prediction replaces the current molecule. Failure does not load a partial structure.
Evidence               Input sequence and endpoint, model/bucket and executed recycle count, progress/failure record,
                       prediction metadata, and exported PDB where required.
Success                A complete ﬁnite prediction is returned for the declared input and passes basic structural
                       inspection for the intended next step.
On failure             Report MSA, archive, rate-limit, maintenance, timeout, feature, asset, or inference failure; do not
                       fabricate a partial structure.
Boundary               No ligand co-folding, multimer prediction, templates, Amber relaxation, experimental validation,
                       or production preparation.


The workﬂow is exposed as protein.predict; protein.cancelPrediction aborts the active request. The MSA
endpoint remains an explicit network boundary rather than a hidden service call:
await api.execute({action:"protein.predict", args:{
  sequence:fastaText, msaEndpoint:"https://msa.example/api"}})
// while active:
await api.execute({action:"protein.cancelPrediction", args:{}})


B.9    Maintain an experimental pose while changing ligand chemistry
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. I trust the experimental pose of my starting ligand. How can I search for a plausible pose of an
edited analogue without discarding what I already know?
Reference-guided docking is a local analogue pose-maintenance workﬂow. It preserves stable atom identities and
selected interactions from a prepared reference complex, searches the degrees of freedom introduced by an edit,
rejects infeasible candidates, and ranks distinct feasible poses in a rigid local receptor site. It is intentionally
narrower than global docking.

Human workﬂow
 1. Prepare and inspect the reference protein-ligand complex. In Design, capture the reference before editing. The
    capture stores ligand lineage, receptor atoms within 8 Å, reference contacts, selected hydrogen bonds, settings,
    and provenance.
 2. Use the default Pose propagation mode to map surviving reference atoms and seed the edited region. Use
    Expert selected core only when you can justify at least three connected, non-collinear heavy atoms as a ﬁxed
    reference.
 3. Edit and ﬁnish the analogue. Review remapped or unavailable contacts, transformed ring regions, atom mapping,
    and any constraints before starting the search.



                                                          31
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



 4. Run the constrained search. Molarium veriﬁes receptor and contact integrity, releases eligible transformed
    rings, generates deterministic feature and torsion seeds, freshly parameterizes the edited ligand, relaxes feasible
    candidates, and scores the distinct results.
 5. Inspect the ranked candidates, not only rank 1. Compare mapped-core displacement, preserved or replaced
    interactions, ligand strain, clashes, ring and side-chain choices, and the reasons candidates were rejected.
 6. Apply one candidate explicitly. Candidate generation does not change the authoritative molecule. Application
    rechecks topology and receptor integrity before replacing coordinates. Export the labbook as JSON and human-
    readable Markdown/notes.

What is being scored?
The ranker uses a rigid receptor site within 8 Å, Lennard-Jones and Coulomb ligand-receptor cross terms with
relative dielectric 4, and relative vacuum ligand strain. It omits general receptor relaxation, water displacement,
entropy, binding free energy, and broad macrocycle or fused-ring concerted search. The separate induced-ﬁt Design
optimizer is not part of this ranker and is not an aﬃnity calculation.
Negative results are results. An invalid core, altered receptor, unmappable required atom, unavailable contact
feature, parameterization failure, or absence of feasible candidates produces an explicit failed or negative record.
Molarium does not silently apply the least-bad pose.
Agent skill contract: maintain_reference_pose

Contract element        Requirement
Goal                    Generate and review plausible local poses for one edited analogue while retaining explicit
                        relationships to a trusted reference complex.
Preconditions           Prepared complex; trusted reference pose; reference captured before edit; chemistry ﬁnished;
                        receptor unchanged; required contacts available.
Inputs                  Pose-propagation or expert-core mode; selected core or contacts; cleanup/contact policy; candidate
                        count; analogue graph.
Procedure               Capture; edit; ﬁnish; verify mapping and receptor integrity; generate and score feasible candidates;
                        inspect alternatives; apply one explicitly or retain a negative result.
State mutation          Capture and search create reference and candidate records. Only Apply replaces the current
                        coordinates.
Evidence                Protocol/settings snapshot, hashes, atom mapping, contact decisions, constraints, rejected
                        candidates, scores, selected pose, and chained labbook.
Success                 At least one feasible distinct candidate survives the declared constraints and a human or agent can
                        justify any applied selection from the recorded evidence.
On failure              Apply nothing; preserve the negative labbook; repair the reference, mapping, constraints, or
                        chemistry before rerunning.
Boundary                Local analogue pose maintenance only—not global docking, automatic MCS pose transfer,
                        receptor-ensemble docking, or aﬃnity/free-energy prediction.


await api.execute({action:"pose.captureReference",
  args:{mode:"propagate"}})
// perform and finish the intended molecular-graph edit
await api.execute({action:"pose.refine",
  args:{searchChains:16}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.apply", args:{index:0}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:500}})

For a receptor-side-chain alternative, the required order is:
await api.execute({action:"pose.enumerateSidechainRotamers",
  args:{receptorAtomId:sidechainAtomId, maximumCandidates:32}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.applySidechainRotamer", args:{index:5}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.updateReceptorReference", args:{}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.refine", args:{searchChains:64}})



                                                           32
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                      Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



Enumeration itself remains non-mutating; the selected receptor coordinates are applied explicitly and then made
the new reference before another ligand-pose search.

B.10     Record, replay, and hand oﬀ a design process
Status. Current action/replay and Design History surfaces.
The question. I have done something scientiﬁcally useful. What must I export so that another scientist or an
agent can understand and reproduce it?
Molarium records several diﬀerent kinds of evidence. They answer diﬀerent questions and should not be treated
as interchangeable. The live action audit says what was requested; a calculation or workﬂow record says what
method ran and what it returned; an action script says how to replay completed public operations; and Design
History represents a durable sequence of content-addressed states and decisions. The current workbench does not
automatically combine every scientiﬁc record into one complete project archive.

Record                   Question answered                                    Persistence and limit
Chemist Actions au-      What recognized public action was requested,         Session memory; serialized calls; bounded his-
dit                      with what arguments and outcome?                     tory, normally 500 entries; cleared with the
                                                                              scene unless exported through a script path.
Preparation or calcu-    What system, model, settings, energies, frames,      Attached to the in-memory state and available
lation record            warnings, or audit produced this result?             through workﬂow-speciﬁc reports or exports.
Docking labbook          How were mapping, feasibility, scoring, rejection,   Exportable JSON and Markdown/notes with
                         and selection handled?                               chained hashes.
Designer action script   Which completed public actions should be re-         Exportable JSON; replay invokes the same
                         played?                                              guarded routes; not a complete UI or binary
                                                                              session snapshot.
Registered    design     What prospective, hash-pinned edit/evaluation se-    Validated route schema; distinct from retro-
route                    quence is permitted?                                 spective history.
Design History cam-      What content-addressed structures, decisions,        Live browser surface with locally persisted com-
paign                    commits, and branches form the design history?       mits, branches, merges, decisions, integrity
                                                                              events, import, and export.


Replay workﬂow
Designer Moves import begins from a blank canvas and performs script-level validation of schema, recognized ac-
tion names, binding order, and forbidden shortcut keys. Individual action arguments and molecular preconditions
are checked when each step executes. Conversion from an audit includes only completed public actions and ex-
cludes campaign administration. A standalone script therefore begins with an explicit reproducible loader such
as session.loadStructure, session.loadIdentifier, session.loadFixture, or designRoute.load; it cannot
depend on an unrecorded starting scene.
 1. Export any unsaved molecular or workﬂow records before importing a script; import intentionally clears the
    existing scene.
 2. Create a Designer action script from completed recognized public actions. Failed actions remain audit evidence
    but are not silently converted into successful replay steps.
 3. Import the validated script, restart it, and Play or step through it. Replay uses the same Chemist Actions
    routes, runtime validations, and workers as manual operation and produces a separate replay audit.
 4. Compare the resulting graph, coordinates, decisions, and errors with the intended endpoint. Export the replay
    audit and scientiﬁc records needed by the recipient.
 5. For a registered story or route, verify schema, referenced content, and SHA-256 before execution. Treat a hash
    chain as integrity evidence, not an authenticated author identity or proof of scientiﬁc truth.
Replay provides play/pause, previous/next-step review, stable captions, and a separate audit. Failed audit entries
remain evidence but are not converted silently into successful replay steps.

Live Design History
Design History is a live browser feature. campaign.create creates a locally persisted campaign and atomically
commits the visible molecule. campaign.commitCurrent stores a complete graph-and-coordinate snapshot together


                                                            33
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                      Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



with completed public actions since the prior commit. Branch switching restores the exact head molecule and refuses
to proceed when the visible molecular state is dirty. Merge records the currently visible result with two parents; it is
not an automatic structural merge. Decisions attach disposition, rationale, reason codes, and optional evidence to
a commit. Veriﬁcation recomputes content hashes, the append-only event chain, commit relationships, and branch
heads derived from that chain.
Campaign JSON and the active branch are stored in browser IndexedDB. Reload restores the graph and coordinates
at the active branch head; it does not restore parameter tables, docking candidates, calculation frames, view
state, or the complete workbench session. campaign.import veriﬁes the canonical JSON and requires a restorable
graph/coordinate snapshot before mutating live state; campaign.export returns that canonical JSON. Closing a
campaign clears the active pointer without deleting its commits. A live commit can attach a script of completed
molecular Chemist Actions; the complete molecular snapshot remains authoritative. Campaign-management actions
are excluded from molecule replay scripts so replay cannot recursively administer its own history.
Choose the export that matches the handoﬀ

Export                 Carries                                         Does not carry
XYZ current frame      Displayed coordinates                           Full topology metadata, history, or provenance
SDF conformer en-      Exportable conformer graph and coordinates      Unrelated session state or complete search history
semble
PDB protein            Imported or predicted protein coordinates       Complete application or preparation provenance
                       and supported annotations
Preparation JSON       Policies, issues, audit, and readiness status   A production-readiness guarantee
Docking       JSON/-   Settings, mapping, candidates, failures,        Author authentication or binding free energy
Markdown               hashes, and selection
Action script JSON     Public actions and bindings                     Arbitrary code, direct coordinates, or complete view
                                                                       state
PNG or share URL       A visual snapshot or current/registered URL     A reusable molecule or serialized live session



Agent skill contract: export_and_handoff

Contract element        Requirement
Goal                    Preserve the smallest complete set of molecular, procedural, numerical, and decision records
                        needed by the next scientist or agent.
Preconditions           The authoritative result and its intended downstream use are identiﬁed; unsaved state has not yet
                        been cleared or replaced.
Inputs                  Recipient and purpose; required molecular format; action/replay needs; calculation, preparation,
                        docking, or campaign evidence to retain.
Procedure               Inventory records; export reusable molecular state and method evidence; create an action script
                        when replay is required; commit decision history when project continuity is required; verify hashes
                        and replay; describe missing pieces explicitly.
State mutation          Export is non-mutating. Script import is destructive to the unsaved scene and must follow export
                        of work that must be retained.
Evidence                Exported ﬁles, schema and version identiﬁers, hashes where recorded, replay audit, and a
                        statement of assumptions and unresolved failures.
Success                 The recipient can identify the starting state, reproduce guarded actions where supported, inspect
                        the method and result, and distinguish accepted decisions from candidates.
On failure              Stop on schema, action, binding, hash, or referenced-content mismatch. Do not describe a partial
                        replay as equivalent to a completed audit.
Boundary                No complete project bundle or automatic capture of browser-native transport, calculation binaries,
                        or every transient view gesture. An action script is not a substitute for the authoritative snapshot.


await api.execute({action:"campaign.create", args:{
  campaignId:"sos1-local-design", title:"SOS1 local design",
  initialCommitMessage:"Register 5OVE/AXE starting state"}})
// chemist or agent performs guarded molecular actions


                                                            34
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



await api.execute({action:"campaign.commitCurrent", args:{
  message:"Accept Phe890-out design state", tags:["prospective"]}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.recordDecision", args:{
  disposition:"progressed",
  rationale:"No new clashes after pocket-state search"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.verify", args:{}})


B.11     How skill contracts, API actions, and Design History ﬁt together
Status. Current conceptual and executable relationship.
The question. How does a written agent contract become an authorized action and then a durable scientiﬁc
decision?
The three layers serve diﬀerent purposes and should not be collapsed:
 1. The skill contract deﬁnes scientiﬁc intent. It states preconditions, permissible operations, required evi-
    dence, success, failure, and escalation. Here these names are proposed narrative operating contracts stored with
    the manuscript. They are not installed runtime skills, Chemist Actions, schemas, or executable enforcement.
 2. The Chemist Actions API deﬁnes executable authority. api.describe() lists installed action names
    and bounded arguments. Calls are validated, serialized through one queue, and audited with sequence, status,
    result or error, and duration. An agent cannot gain extra molecular authority by phrasing a request diﬀerently.
 3. Design History deﬁnes durable meaning over time. It commits complete molecular states and can
    link them to an explicitly partial public-action script, branches, decisions, evidence, actors, and append-only
    integrity records. The snapshot answers “what state was accepted?”; the action script answers “which guarded
    operations were captured and can be replayed?”; and the decision answers “why was it accepted?”
The practical agent pattern is:
const manifest = api.describe();          // discover installed authority
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect", args:{scope:"all"}})
await api.execute({action:"geometry.setInternalCoordinate", args:{
  atomIds:[a,b,c,d], value:172.0, moveConnected:true}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect", args:{scope:"all"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.commitCurrent",
  args:{message:"Accepted state after declared check"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.recordDecision",
  args:{disposition:"progressed", rationale:"..."}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.verify", args:{}})

The manifest is the executable authority: a narrative skill contract cannot add an action, relax argument validation,
or bypass a molecular precondition. Scientiﬁc review remains necessary even when an operation is exposed to both
interface and agent.
Handoﬀ rule. Export the structure when the recipient needs coordinates; export the calculation record when the
recipient must judge the method; export the Designer Moves script together with its required starting state when
the recipient must replay operations; and commit to Design History when the recipient must recover branches,
decisions, and accepted molecular states. Hashes detect alteration of the serialized record. They do not establish
authorship, chemical equivalence, or scientiﬁc validity.
The appendix in one sentence. For every task: make the molecular state explicit, choose a method whose scope
matches the question, inspect before applying a candidate, retain the evidence needed to reproduce the decision,
and stop when the declared scientiﬁc boundary is crossed.

Capabilities deliberately outside these workﬂows
The current workbench does not provide missing-loop construction, membrane or general metal preparation, covalent-
ligand parameterization, periodic explicit solvent, PME, production-scale trajectories, binding free energy, global
docking, general remote CUDA execution, GFN/xTB, general combinatorial enumeration, or automatic campaign
selection. Their absence is part of the operating contract rather than a prompt to approximate them silently.
This task-centered appendix intentionally omits maintainer ﬁle paths, source-line numbers, worker lifecycle details, JSON
nesting limits, deployment internals, and the complete repository test list. Those remain valuable implementation and audit


                                                            35
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



documentation, but they are not required for a scientist or agent to understand how to perform and judge the workﬂows
above.


References
 [1] Bran, A. M.; Cox, S.; Schilter, O.; Baldassari, C.; White, A. D.; Schwaller, P. Augmenting Large
     Language Models with Chemistry Tools. Nature Machine Intelligence 2024, 6, 525–535.
 [2] Boiko, D. A.; MacKnight, R.; Kline, B.; Gomes, G. Autonomous Chemical Research with Large
     Language Models. Nature 2023, 624, 570–578.
 [3] Pham, T. D.; Tanikanti, A.; Keçeli, M. ChemGraph as an Agentic Framework for Computational
     Chemistry Workﬂows. Communications Chemistry 2026, 9, 33.
 [4] MacKnight, R.; Boiko, D. A.; Regio, J. E.; Gallegos, L. C.; Neukomm, T. A.; et al. Rethinking
     Chemical Research in the Age of Large Language Models. Nature Computational Science 2025, 5,
     715–726.
 [5] Haas, A.; Rossberg, A.; Schuﬀ, D. L.; et al. Bringing the Web up to Speed with WebAssembly. Proc.
     PLDI 2017, 185–200.
 [6] W3C GPU for the Web Working Group. WebGPU Speciﬁcation, 2025.
 [7] Riniker, S.; Landrum, G. A. Better Informed Distance Geometry: Using What We Know to Improve
     Conformation Generation. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2015, 55, 2562–2574.
 [8] Boothroyd, S.; Madin, O. C.; Mobley, D. L.; et al. Development and Benchmarking of Open Force
     Field 2.0.0: The Sage Small-Molecule Force Field. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2023, 19, 3251–3275.
 [9] Eastman, P.; Galvelis, R.; Peláez, R. P.; et al. OpenMM 8: Molecular Dynamics Simulation with
     Machine Learning Potentials. J. Phys. Chem. B 2024, 128, 109–116.
[10] Cerutti, D. S.; Wiewiora, R. P.; Boothroyd, S.; Sherman, W. STORMM: Structure and Topology
     Replica Molecular Mechanics for Chemical Simulations. J. Chem. Phys. 2024, 161, 032501.
[11] Devereux, C.; Smith, J. S.; Huddleston, K. K.; et al. Extending the Applicability of the ANI Deep
     Learning Molecular Potential to Sulfur and Halogens. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2020, 16, 4192–4202.
[12] Ahdritz, G.; Bouatta, N.; Floristean, C.; et al. OpenFold: Retraining AlphaFold2 Yields New Insights
     into Its Learning Mechanisms and Capacity for Generalization. Nature Methods 2024, 21, 1514–1524.
[13] Ryckaert, J.-P.; Ciccotti, G.; Berendsen, H. J. C. Numerical Integration of the Cartesian Equations
     of Motion of a System with Constraints: Molecular Dynamics of n-Alkanes. J. Comput. Phys. 1977,
     23, 327–341.
[14] Andersen, H. C. RATTLE: A “Velocity” Version of the SHAKE Algorithm for Molecular Dynamics
     Calculations. J. Comput. Phys. 1983, 52, 24–34.
[15] Cohen-Boulakia, S.; Belhajjame, K.; Collin, O.; et al. Scientiﬁc Workﬂows for Computational Repro-
     ducibility in the Life Sciences: Status, Challenges and Opportunities. Future Gener. Comput. Syst.
     2017, 75, 284–298.
[16] Pritchard, N. J.; Wicenec, A. Formal Deﬁnition and Implementation of Reproducibility Tenets for
     Computational Workﬂows. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2025, 166, 107684.
[17] Wilkinson, M. D.; Dumontier, M.; Aalbersberg, I. J.; et al. The FAIR Guiding Principles for Scientiﬁc
     Data Management and Stewardship. Sci. Data 2016, 3, 160018.

                                                         36
Molarium — Appendix B                                                        Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



[18] Bender, A.; Cortés-Ciriano, I. Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Drug Discovery: What Is Realistic, What Are
     Illusions? Part 1. Drug Discov. Today 2021, 26, 511–524.

[19] Bender, A.; Cortés-Ciriano, I. Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Drug Discovery: What Is Realistic, What Are
     Illusions? Part 2. Drug Discov. Today 2021, 26, 1040–1052.

[20] Wigh, D. S.; Goodman, J. M.; Lapkin, A. A. A Review of Molecular Representation in the Age of
     Machine Learning. WIREs Comput. Mol. Sci. 2022, 12, e1603.

[21] Bainbridge, L. Ironies of Automation. Automatica 1983, 19, 775–779.

[22] W3C GPU for the Web Working Group. WebGPU Shading Language, 2026. https://www.w3.org/
     TR/WGSL/.

[23] Wang, S.; Witek, J.; Landrum, G. A.; Riniker, S. Improving Conformer Generation for Small Rings
     and Macrocycles Based on Distance Geometry and Experimental Torsional-Angle Preferences. J.
     Chem. Inf. Model. 2020, 60, 2044–2058.

[24] Halgren, T. A. Merck Molecular Force Field. I. Basis, Form, Scope, Parameterization, and Perfor-
     mance of MMFF94. J. Comput. Chem. 1996, 17, 490–519.

[25] Rappé, A. K.; Casewit, C. J.; Colwell, K. S.; Goddard, W. A.; Skiﬀ, W. M. UFF, a Full Periodic
     Table Force Field for Molecular Mechanics and Molecular Dynamics Simulations. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
     1992, 114, 10024–10035.

[26] Gasteiger, J.; Marsili, M. Iterative Partial Equalization of Orbital Electronegativity—A Rapid Access
     to Atomic Charges. Tetrahedron 1980, 36, 3219–3228.

[27] Eastman, P.; Swails, J.; Chodera, J. D.; et al. OpenMM 7: Rapid Development of High Performance
     Algorithms for Molecular Dynamics. PLoS Comput. Biol. 2017, 13, e1005659.

[28] Onufriev, A.; Bashford, D.; Case, D. A. Exploring Protein Native States and Large-Scale Conforma-
     tional Changes with a Modiﬁed Generalized Born Model. Proteins 2004, 55, 383–394.

[29] Glaser, J.; Nguyen, T. D.; Anderson, J. A.; et al. Strong Scaling of General-Purpose Molecular
     Dynamics Simulations on GPUs. Comput. Phys. Commun. 2015, 192, 97–107.

[30] Hillig, R. C.; Sautier, B.; Schroeder, J.; et al. Discovery of Potent SOS1 Inhibitors That Block RAS
     Activation via Disruption of the RAS–SOS1 Interaction. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2019, 116,
     2551–2560.




                                                   37
