                         Molecular design tools are free now
                                               Anonymous

                                     Preprint — September 2026

                                                Abstract
         Molecular design software no longer has to begin with procurement, a remote account, or
     a specialist workstation installation. Modern browsers can parse and render molecular struc-
     tures, preserve chemical topology during interactive editing, and execute accelerated numerical
     kernels without sending a structure to a server. We describe Molarium, a browser-native
     molecular workspace that accepts XYZ and SMILES input, supports topology-aware fragment
     construction, and runs local molecular-mechanics calculations through JavaScript, WebGPU,
     and OpenMM 8.2 compiled to WebAssembly. The system is a concrete case study for a broader
     claim: a useful baseline of molecular design is now free at the points of access, installation, and
     data custody. “Free” does not mean that every relevant method is open, equally available on
     all hardware, or suitable for publication-quality prediction. The current generic force ﬁeld and
     small-molecule GPU path are intended for interactive exploration. We therefore pair the access
     claim with an explicit validation program covering chemical invariants, cross-backend numeri-
     cal agreement, performance, and browser portability. This framing separates what is already
     broadly available from the scientiﬁc and infrastructural work still required to make molecular
     computation genuinely universal.

Keywords: molecular design; scientiﬁc software; WebAssembly; WebGPU; molecular mechanics;
browser computing


1    Introduction
For much of the history of computational chemistry, using a molecular design tool meant acquiring
a license, installing a substantial native software stack, learning a remote computing environment,
or some combination of the three. These requirements were not merely inconveniences. They
inﬂuenced who could inspect a structure, test an idea, reproduce a calculation, and teach with the
same tools used in research.
    That boundary has shifted. WebAssembly brings portable compiled code to the browser [1],
while WebGPU exposes local accelerators [2]. Established scientiﬁc engines can also be reused
in new environments; OpenMM is one example [3]. Browser molecular graphics are already well
established [4]. The newer opportunity is to place editing and calculation beside visualization
without adding a remote service boundary.
    This paper advances a deliberately provocative thesis: molecular design tools are free now.
The useful version of that thesis is narrower than the title and more testable. A person with a
contemporary browser can now access a meaningful baseline of molecular construction, visualization,
and local computation without paying at the point of use, installing a native scientiﬁc stack, or
surrendering molecular data to a hosted calculation service.
    We examine that claim through Molarium, a browser-native molecular workspace. The con-
tribution is not a claim that browser software has displaced high-accuracy quantum chemistry,
production molecular dynamics, or expert modeling workﬂows. Instead, it is threefold:

                                                     1
    1. a precise account of what “free” can mean for scientiﬁc software;

    2. a reference architecture for local, browser-based molecular design; and

    3. a validation framework that makes the limits of such a system visible.


2     What does “free” mean?
Price is only one barrier to molecular computation. We distinguish four freedoms that can be
evaluated independently.

Free to access. The user does not pay a fee or need an institutional entitlement before the ﬁrst
useful interaction.

Free from installation. The application opens from a URL and does not require the user
to conﬁgure a compiler, Python environment, GPU toolkit, or native molecular-simulation stack.
Downloading web assets still constitutes installation in a technical sense, but the browser makes
that process automatic and disposable.

Free to keep data local. Structures and trajectories need not cross a service boundary for
supported operations. This property matters for unpublished compounds, classroom use, and
settings in which connectivity is intermittent or policy constrains data transfer.

Free to inspect and modify. This is the traditional software-freedom question, and it depends
on licensing, source availability, and the licenses of bundled components. It must not be inferred
from zero price or browser delivery.
   The title is therefore a hypothesis about a practical access threshold, not a claim that all
molecular design software is costless, open source, or free of operational constraints. The four-part
deﬁnition also supplies a more useful evaluation target than a binary label.


3     A browser-native molecular workspace
3.1    Interaction and molecular representation
Molarium presents a three-panel workspace for entering, constructing, viewing, and calculating
on molecules. It accepts XYZ coordinates and SMILES strings, supports ﬁle upload, and provides
a searchable fragment builder. Initial three-dimensional geometry is seeded from local chemical
templates: aromatic groups are planar, saturated carbon centers are tetrahedral, neutral amines
are pyramidal, and divalent oxygen and sulfur centers are bent.
    Build operations preserve explicit molecular topology. Adding an atom next to an existing
atom replaces an available hydrogen and adds one bond; adding it in open space begins a separate
saturated component. The editor does not regenerate bonds from visual proximity, and it rejects
edits that violate its valence rules. This separation between topology and rendering is essential: a
molecular editor must not silently change the object being studied merely because two projected
atoms appear close together.
    The viewer uses an outlined ball-and-stick representation with element-speciﬁc colors and ex-
plicit bond-order lanes. Its virtual trackball uses quaternion rotation, and a rotation-invariant
three-dimensional ﬁt prevents apparent zoom changes during manipulation.

                                                  2
3.2   Local calculation backends
All supported calculations execute locally in workers outside the rendering thread. The lightweight
JavaScript path provides immediate geometry cleanup. A browser-native WebGPU worker eval-
uates energy, relaxes geometry, and runs short single-precision dynamics. An OpenMM 8.2 We-
bAssembly worker provides a double-precision path on the Reference platform for energies, L-BFGS
minimization, and short dynamics.
    Both workers receive the same browser-assigned OpenFF Sage 2.1.0 valence and van der Waals
terms and explicitly labelled RDKit Gasteiger partial charges. The WebGPU worker is a direct Sage
evaluator rather than an OpenMM Platform; OpenMM Reference serves as its double-precision
compatibility oracle. The WebGPU path uses analytical, atom-centric forces with compact va-
lence incidence and sparse nonbonded-exception data. It is intended for responsive cleanup and
exploratory trajectories, not for publication-quality energetics.
    Calculation results retain a compact trajectory. An energy plot and frame slider allow the user
to inspect saved geometries in the same viewer, making calculation history an interactive object
rather than a log ﬁle hidden behind the interface.

3.3   Machine-learning feasibility boundary
The repository also contains an experimental browser export of OpenFold, whose reference im-
plementation is a trainable reimplementation of AlphaFold2 [5]. The experiment dispatches an
Evoformer block and StructureModule through ONNX Runtime Web and compares WebGPU out-
put with an in-browser WebAssembly path. Its exported models use untrained random weights. It
demonstrates an execution route, not a usable structure predictor, and is not part of the current
molecular-design claim.


4     Evaluation plan
A paper about access still needs conventional evidence of correctness and performance. Table 1
deﬁnes the minimum evaluation needed to turn this design report into an empirical result.
   The existing browser regression suite is a starting point rather than the ﬁnal dataset. The bench-
mark should be versioned, machine-readable, and runnable independently of the prose manuscript.
Figures and tables should be generated from committed result ﬁles so that the reported values can
be traced back to a speciﬁc application revision, browser version, and hardware conﬁguration.




                                                 3
Table 1: Planned evaluation. Numerical thresholds and the device/browser matrix should be ﬁxed
before running the ﬁnal benchmark.
    Dimension             Test                                      Report
    Chemical integrity    Parse, edit, attach fragments,            Valence violations, topology changes,
                          minimize, and replay trajectories for a   stereochemical limitations, and failing
                          curated molecule set                      structures
    Numerical agreement   Compare energies and ﬁnal coordinates     Absolute and relative energy diﬀerences,
                          across JavaScript, WebGPU, and            coordinate RMSD, convergence, and
                          OpenMM paths where their models           precision sensitivity
                          overlap
    Performance           Measure cold start, ﬁrst result,          Median and tail latency, memory use,
                          minimization throughput, and              device class, and thermal conditions
                          trajectory throughput over molecule
                          size
    Portability           Run the same versioned test suite in      Feature availability, pass rate, fallbacks,
                          supported browser/operating-system        and reproducible failure logs
                          combinations
    Access                Audit the steps and external              Fees, accounts, downloads, network
                          dependencies between a new user and       requests, local-data guarantees, and
                          each capability                           licenses



5     Limits and failure modes
Browser delivery removes some barriers and introduces others. WebGPU availability and perfor-
mance vary by browser, operating system, adapter, and driver. Mobile thermal limits and memory
pressure can make a nominally supported calculation impractical. Initial application assets must
still be transferred and cached, and a URL is only durable if its hosting and dependency supply
chain are maintained.
     Scientiﬁc limits are more important. A compact generic force ﬁeld cannot supply the accuracy,
chemical perception, sampling depth, or uncertainty estimates required for many research conclu-
sions. The present system covers a restricted element set and small molecules, and its interactive
trajectories do not substitute for a validated simulation protocol. SMILES-to-three-dimensional
initialization is useful for interaction but does not establish protonation state, tautomeric state,
stereochemistry, or a physically representative conformational ensemble in every case.
     Finally, privacy is an architectural property that must be veriﬁed, not merely asserted. Local
calculation can coexist with analytics, remote fonts, crash reporting, or other network requests. A
release supporting the data-custody claim should include a network audit, content-security policy,
dependency inventory, and an oﬄine test.


6     Discussion
The browser is becoming a credible lowest common denominator for scientiﬁc interaction. Its im-
portance is not that it wins every benchmark against a native application. It is that one executable
document can combine explanation, direct manipulation, and computation on machines that people
already possess.
    This changes the useful comparison. The question is no longer whether a browser can reproduce
the largest or most accurate molecular workﬂow. It is which useful workﬂows can cross the zero-
install, local-data threshold, how their limitations are communicated, and when a user should
graduate to a specialized engine. A trustworthy tool should make that boundary obvious in the

                                                     4
interface and in its exported results.
    The word “free” also creates an obligation. If an application is free only while a particular
host, browser feature, or volunteer maintainer persists, access remains fragile. Reproducible builds,
permissive component licenses, archival releases, oﬄine operation, and export to standard molecular
formats are therefore part of the scientiﬁc design, not administrative details.


7     Conclusion
A useful subset of molecular design can now begin in an ordinary browser, run on local hardware,
and preserve local custody of molecular structures. Molarium demonstrates this threshold for
molecular construction, visualization, and exploratory mechanics while exposing clear limits in
force-ﬁeld ﬁdelity, system size, and platform coverage.
    The strongest form of the paper’s claim will not come from rhetoric. It will come from a public
artifact, a cross-platform validation set, transparent failure reporting, and a durable licensing and
archival story. Those are the next steps required to turn “molecular design tools are free now” from
a provocative title into a reproducible scientiﬁc statement.


A     Molarium architecture and executable design history
This appendix speciﬁes the implementation beneath the browser interface. It separates deployed
capabilities from proposed workﬂows and closes with the selected SOS1 route underlying the paper
movie.

A.1    Execution architecture
WebAssembly and WebGPU give the browser two diﬀerent kinds of calculator. Emscripten can com-
pile established C and C++ programs into WebAssembly’s portable instruction format. WebGPU
lets the browser submit parallel arithmetic to the laptop’s graphics processor [1, 2, 6]. Neither
knows chemistry by itself.
    Molarium therefore separates chemical interpretation from calculation. RDKit identiﬁes chem-
ical environments in the molecular graph. Molarium’s JavaScript parameterizer then applies the
OpenFF Sage tables to produce a numerical recipe: atom properties, bonded terms, nonbonded
terms, and constraints. Missing bond, angle, torsion, or van der Waals parameters stop prepara-
tion rather than being guessed. OpenMM or WebGPU evaluates the same accepted recipe. The
interface maps the returned coordinates and energies back onto the original atoms. This separation
allows one engine to serve as a direct check on the other.
    For readers outside software development, ETKDG proposes plausible starting 3D shapes [7, 8].
SMARTS patterns recognize chemical environments in a molecular graph. MMFF94 and UFF
provide quick ligand-only geometry cleanup [9, 10]. OBC2/ACE approximates solvent screening and
the nonpolar cost of placing a molecule in solvent. “Analytical forces” means forces obtained directly
by diﬀerentiating the energy equations, rather than by repeatedly perturbing each coordinate.
    The information ﬂow is deliberately narrow:




                                                  5
                                         PDB or SMILES input
                                                    ↓
                         molecular graph, stable atom identities, and coordinates
                                                    ↓
                             RDKit interpretation → Sage numerical recipe
                                                    ↓
                                            three calculators:
                   OpenMM/WebAssembly reference; direct WebGPU; replica WebGPU
                                                    ↓
                      viewer + action audit + numerical labbook + design decisions

    The architectural claim concerns this composition, not novelty in each of its parts. Back-
ground workers, atomwise GPU decomposition, graph-coloured constraints, ﬁxed-point accumula-
tion, canonical JSON, and cryptographic hashes are established techniques. Molarium combines
them behind one numerical and action contract, then tests the boundaries created by that com-
bination in a browser. The implementation results below therefore distinguish three things: rou-
tine choices needed to reproduce the software, changes forced by observed failures, and measured
workload-dependent behaviour.

                               Table 2: Current browser implementation.
  Task                    Software used                    What it does
  Interpret the           RDKit 2025.03.4, WebAssembly     SMILES/graphs, ETKDGv3, SMARTS matching,
  molecule                                                 MMFF94, explicit UFF fallback, Gasteiger charges
  Assign the force ﬁeld   OpenFF Sage 2.1.0                Produces the complete numerical recipe: particles,
                                                           bonds, angles, torsions, nonbonded terms,
                                                           exceptions, and constraints
  Reference               OpenMM 8.2.0 Reference,          High-precision energy/forces, L-BFGS
  calculation             WebAssembly                      minimization, and short dynamics; used as an
                                                           answer key
  Fast local              WebGPU/WGSL, 32-bit              Evaluates one system directly on the GPU;
  calculation             ﬂoating point                    includes analytical forces, OBC2/ACE,
                                                           minimization, and short dynamics
  Many-copy               STORMM-inspired WebGPU           Advances many copies of one topology together;
  calculation             engine                           exact integer-based accumulation; current limit
                                                           512 atoms per copy
  Display and record      JavaScript modules, background   Keeps atom identity, executes allowed actions, and
                          workers, Canvas, Web Crypto      writes reproducible JSON records with SHA-256
                                                           ﬁngerprints


   Table 2 summarizes the concrete implementation. The numerical recipe crossing these layers
has a narrow contract:

  • Input. A molecular graph plus coordinates, masses, charges, bonded terms, nonbonded
    terms, exceptions, and constraints.

  • Units. nm, ps, daltons, kJ/mol, and kJ/mol/nm internally; angstroms and kcal/mol in the
    interface.

  • Isolation. Each engine lives in a reusable background worker—a separate browser task—so
    the molecular canvas and controls can remain responsive. Jobs carry identiﬁers that match
    results to requests. A crashed worker is discarded and recreated.



                                                      6
  • Output. Compact arrays of coordinates, forces, energies, and trajectory frames return to
    the same molecular object and atom identities.

    For ordinary small molecules, a JavaScript SMIRNOFF parameterizer uses RDKit to apply
Sage 2.1.0 patterns and assign labelled Gasteiger charges [11, 12]. Prepared Rosemary ﬁxtures
keep their exported numerical recipes and NAGL charges. CPU/GPU comparisons therefore use
identical graphs and numbers, not two separately prepared approximations.

A.1.1    OpenMM WebAssembly reference
Cross-compiling C++ and exposing a C interface are established deployment techniques. The
relevant results here are that the browser build preserved the native calculation and that constrained
setup exposed one browser-speciﬁc threading failure.

Deployment. We compiled OpenMM 8.2.0 with Emscripten 6.0.6-git and CMake 3.31.0 [3, 13].
    A thin C interface copies the numerical recipe into OpenMM and returns energies, forces,
    or coordinates. The shipped source, two patches, interface, and built ﬁles carry recorded
    ﬁngerprints. A rebuild can be audited against those inputs; byte-identical recompilation is
    not asserted.
Reference conﬁguration. Nonperiodic OpenMM System; double-precision Reference platform;
    energy, forces, L-BFGS, short dynamics, optional X–H constraints, 2 fs Langevin-middle
    integration, cutoﬀ, and OBC2/ACE with mbondi2 radii [14].
Browser-speciﬁc failure. OpenMM normally creates helper CPU threads while setting up con-
    strained motion. This browser build has no such threads; without a small serial patch, setup
    waits indeﬁnitely. The patch aﬀects only this WebAssembly build, not native OpenMM.
Measured parity. First, the same C interface compiled natively and for WebAssembly agreed to
    2.84 × 10−14 kcal/mol maximum energy diﬀerence and 3.76 × 10−15 relative force RMS. This
    tests whether OpenMM survived conversion to the browser. We then sent ﬁve hash-selected
    protein–ligand poses through browser Sage and OpenMM using the same numerical inputs.
    The maximum energy diﬀerence was 1.24×10−4 kcal/mol in vacuum and 2.76×10−4 kcal/mol
    with OBC2. Maximum relative force RMS error was 1.16 × 10−5 in both modes. These ﬁxed-
    input regression results are not general force-ﬁeld accuracy claims.

A.1.2    Direct WebGPU mechanics
This path does not run OpenMM on the GPU. It evaluates the same force-ﬁeld equations directly
in WebGPU Shading Language (WGSL), using 32-bit ﬂoating-point arithmetic. Its central trade-
oﬀ is simple: repeat some arithmetic so that each force has exactly one writer. This favours
deterministic browser execution over the more cooperative decompositions used by highly tuned
GPU molecular-dynamics codes [15].

  • Single-writer force accumulation—implementation choice. One invocation owns one
    atom’s output force. A compact incidence list gives it only the bonds, angles, and torsions
    involving that atom. Pair and valence contributions are recomputed where necessary, after
    which the invocation writes its force once. The method therefore needs no ﬂoating-point
    atomic update to the force buﬀer; WGSL deﬁnes atomic integer types but no atomic ﬂoating-
    point type [6]. One-invocation-per-atom is a conventional GPU decomposition, not a new
    algorithm.

                                                  7
  • Quadratic pair allocation removed—failure-driven change. The ﬁrst representation
    stored data for every possible atom pair and cost 32N 2 bytes: approximately 32 MB at 1,000
    atoms and 2 GB at 8,000 atoms. The deployed representation stores only excluded or specially
    scaled pairs; ordinary Lennard–Jones parameters are mixed on demand. This change removed
    the direct engine’s former 512-atom allocation ceiling.

  • OBC2/ACE mapped to three passes—method implementation. The ﬁrst pass esti-
    mates Born radii, the second propagates their coordinate derivatives, and the third accumu-
    lates solvent and nonpolar energies and forces. The pass structure is an implementation of
    the published model, not a new solvent model.

  • Graph-coloured constraints—implementation choice. Optional X–H constraints use
    target distances from the assigned bonds. Constraints with no shared atom are grouped so
    SHAKE and RATTLE corrections can run concurrently [16, 17]. Seeded Langevin dynamics
    then supports 1 fs ﬂexible or 2 fs constrained steps.

  • Bounded pocket relaxation—product behaviour. A bounded steepest-descent proce-
    dure cleans geometry. Zero inverse mass ﬁxes outer receptor atoms, leaving only the ligand
    and selected pocket atoms free.


                 Table 3: Operating limits in the current direct WebGPU worker.
   Setting                           Current value
   Principal force workgroup         64 atomwise calculations
   Time step                         1 fs ﬂexible; 2 fs with X–H constraints
   Constraint solve                  Four graph-coloured sweeps by default; at most 32
   Minimization                      750 iterations by default; at most 2,000; each displacement capped
                                     at 0.001 nm
   Direct dynamics request           At most 5,000 steps; longer requests use the ensemble route
   Validation cutoﬀ                  1.0 nm cutoﬀ; 0.2 nm skin; rebuild every 20 steps


    Two measurements changed or bounded the design. First, a conventional neighbour-list cutoﬀ
did not help at these interactive system sizes. With a 0.2 nm Verlet skin rebuilt every 20 steps,
it made 5,000 constrained OBC2 Trp-cage steps 46% slower and 1,000 ubiquitin steps 17% slower
than the full nonbonded range on an Apple M1 Pro. Molarium therefore retains this route for
validation but does not expose it in the product.
    Second, GPU beneﬁt depended on amortization. One Trp-cage energy/force call took 25.5 ms in
WebGPU and 5.7 ms in OpenMM Reference: dispatch cost exceeded the saved arithmetic. Across
1,000 dynamics steps, WebGPU reached 214.9 versus 102.8 ns/day for 304-atom Trp-cage and 65.18
versus 7.11 ns/day for 1,231-atom ubiquitin. These warmed, nonperiodic, all-pairs measurements
identify a workload crossover; they are not claims about complete solvated-protein protocols. The
direct path currently excludes periodic boundaries, particle-mesh Ewald electrostatics, explicit
solvent, barostats, virtual sites, and arbitrary OpenMM custom forces.

A.1.3   Replica-parallel WebGPU
The second engine targets ensembles of independent copies of one topology. It maps one replica
to each GPU workgroup, whereas the direct engine distributes one molecule across atom-owning
invocations. This mapping is not itself novel; it creates a diﬀerent throughput regime and requires


                                                 8
a diﬀerent memory layout. The implementation draws on STORMM’s ﬁxed-point and stacked-
system design but is independent browser code [18]. Replicas share a topology and parameter
layout but never interact.
    Fixed-point accumulation is also established rather than a Molarium algorithm: it stores a
scaled real number as an integer so concurrent additions can use exact integer operations. Its
browser adaptation was consequential because WGSL exposes 32-bit integer atomics. Molarium
represents each signed 64-bit accumulator as two 32-bit words and uses 222 counts per kcal/mol for
energies, 218 counts per kcal/mol/Å for forces, and 232 counts per Å for coordinates. This paired-
word representation replaced 32-bit sums that silently overﬂowed in clashed systems. It produced
bit-for-bit replay for identical seeds on the tested adapter.
    The integrator is deliberately conventional: velocity Verlet, seeded Langevin thermalization, and
SHAKE/RATTLE. Constraint projection is serial within a replica while replicas remain parallel;
the default relative tolerance is 10−5 with at most 32 iterations. Commands contain at most 50
steps. The important safety behaviour is fail-closed execution: persistent status words turn non-
ﬁnite values, clamps, and failed constraints into terminal errors. Current limits are 512 atoms per
replica, all-pairs nonbonded work, and the same atom count, topology, and parameters in every
copy. Heterogeneous stacked systems remain proposed.
    Force evaluation still uses a separate 32-bit ﬂoating-point coordinate copy. That copy, not the
exact store, sets the remaining spatial precision boundary: translating a test system 500 Å from
the origin changed its energies by approximately 3 × 10−4 relative. A future implementation should
recenter each work unit; widening the integer store cannot correct arithmetic already performed on
the ﬂoating-point copy.
    The many-copy design pays oﬀ only when enough work is available. In warm tests, OpenMM
Reference was 13.3-fold faster for one C16 molecule and 3.5-fold faster for one 27-water system.
WebGPU was 10.3-fold faster for 1,024 C16 replicas and 24.1-fold faster for 256 water replicas.
These comparisons measure aggregate replica throughput; the two engines do not use identical
integrators.

A.2    How the numerical rewrite was accelerated
The speed-up came from a shared executable speciﬁcation, not from asking an agent to invent
molecular dynamics from prose. Every implementation received the same atom order, coordinates,
parameters, units, and named energy terms as the OpenMM reference. The agent then used a
conventional diﬀerential-testing loop:

  1. start with exactly the same molecular graph, coordinates, and force-ﬁeld numbers used by
     the CPU calculation;

  2. implement one term at a time—for example bonds before angles, and angles before torsions—
     including both the GPU equation and the arrangement of its input numbers in memory;

  3. ask OpenMM to evaluate the identical input;

  4. compare each named energy term and every x, y, and z force;

  5. stop at the ﬁrst diﬀerence, correct it, and save a small test that would fail if the error returned;

  6. ﬁnally run the real WebGPU and WebAssembly code in a browser, rather than a simpliﬁed
     stand-in.



                                                   9
    Diﬀerential testing is not new. What shortened this implementation was making the complete
path—chemical typing, OpenMM adapter, GPU equations, browser workers, controls, and regres-
sion tests—addressable in one workspace. A visible failure could be reduced to the ﬁrst disagreeing
term without translating ﬁles or atom identities between teams or tools. Reusing exact inputs
reduced coordination; it did not relax the numerical standard.
    Responsibility remained divided. Published methods and OpenMM supplied the equations and
reference values. The human team set the scientiﬁc boundary, chose acceptable workﬂows, and
interpreted results. The coding agent translated terms into browser code, isolated discrepancies,
and retained regression tests. The public history shows an iterative implementation, but its ﬁrst
public commit was consolidated; it does not support a precise claim about elapsed development
time.
    Several failures changed the architecture rather than being hidden by wider tolerances (Table 4):

                   Table 4: Observed failures that changed the implementation.
  Observation                   Design change                          Retained check
  Pair table grew as 32 times   Store only exceptional pairs; mix      Large-system allocation and parity
  atom-count squared            ordinary pairs as needed               tests
  32-bit force/energy sums      Paired-word 64-bit ﬁxed-point          Clashed system at about 2 million
  overﬂowed                     accumulation and fault ﬂags            kcal/mol
  Coordinates wrapped beyond    64-bit ﬁxed-point coordinate store     Whole system translated to 500 Å
  128 Å                         plus ﬂoating-point working copy
  Standard cutoﬀ ran slower     Keep it for validation; omit it from   Fixed Trp-cage/ubiquitin timing
                                product controls                       protocols
  Apparent engine mismatch      Check atom order, hashes, and          Native/WebAssembly parity and
                                solvent mode before changing code      matched-solvent comparison


   The retained tests expose the seams where implementation errors actually appeared:
  • Equation seam: minimal bonds, angles, torsions, and exceptions catch formula, sign, unit,
    and periodicity errors.
  • Representation seam: clashes, constraints, overﬂow, and translated coordinates exercise
    projection and numerical range.
  • Engine seam: identical OpenMM and WebGPU inputs identify the ﬁrst disagreeing energy
    component or force coordinate.
  • System seam: protein ﬁxtures exercise memory layout, special pairs, and transfer between
    workers and the molecular object.
  • Browser seam: the shipped GPU and WebAssembly workers exercise adapter support,
    worker recovery, and the visible controls.
  • Performance seam: ﬁxed hardware and protocols retain correct but slower results, includ-
    ing the rejected cutoﬀ design.
    Fixed random seeds and stable atom IDs make failures repeatable. Both engines reject impossi-
ble inputs and invalid memory ranges before display. The ensemble engine also stops on ﬁxed-point
overﬂow warnings or unconverged constraints; the direct engine reports its ﬁnal constraint error,
which browser tests compare with an acceptance threshold. Curated debugging records connect
each observed failure to its diagnosis, code change, protective test, and remaining uncertainty;
private raw transcripts are not scientiﬁc evidence.

                                                    10
Reproduction diﬃculty and portability boundary. Reproducing the present ﬁxed-topology,
nonperiodic mechanics was tractable once the reference calculation became executable, but it was
not automatic. The diﬃculty was uneven:

   • Individual force-ﬁeld terms were bounded problems. Each bond, angle, torsion, pair,
     or solvent contribution had a published equation, a ﬁxed input, and an OpenMM result
     against which to compare it. Analytical derivatives and OBC2 coupling still required careful
     work, but discrepancies could be localized.

   • The diﬃcult problems crossed layers. Atom identities had to survive chemical percep-
     tion, parameterization, GPU packing, calculation, and display. Force ownership had to avoid
     races. Numerical ranges had to survive clashes and translations. Long calculations had to
     yield often enough that the browser remained usable.

   • Validation remained irreducible. An agent could translate and test each term quickly,
     but it could not infer that two runs represented the same physical model. Atom order, solvent
     mode, cutoﬀs, constraints, units, and charge provenance still had to be matched explicitly.

    These results do not imply that any simulation algorithm can be copied into WebGPU. They
support a narrower working hypothesis: WebGPU is a strong target when state ﬁts regular arrays,
work can be divided into local or pairwise operations, global dependencies can be separated into a
small number of kernel passes, and repeated work amortizes dispatch. Fixed-topology mechanics,
local minimization, independent replicas, and graph-colourable constraints meet those conditions.
    Other methods may be expressible but unattractive. Algorithms that depend on 64-bit ﬂoating-
point arithmetic, frequent device-wide synchronization, rapidly changing graphs, large adaptive
sparse structures, or mature FFT and sparse linear-algebra libraries require substantial redesign
under current WGSL [6]. Particle-mesh Ewald electrostatics, heterogeneous reactive systems, and
some long-timescale production protocols therefore remain outside the demonstrated boundary. For
such methods, a WebAssembly reference, a hybrid CPU/GPU path, or a remote specialist engine
may be the more faithful design.
    A successful rewrite should consequently mean agreement on the same accepted inputs within
a declared tolerance, together with measured usefulness on the target workload. It does not mean
identical source code, universal bitwise reproducibility, or automatic speed-up.

A.3    Workﬂows
“Local calculation” and “oﬄine operation” are diﬀerent claims. In normal connected mode, compu-
tation stays on the device, but an explicit PDB/CCD lookup or sequence-alignment search contacts
the service named in the interface. Local Lab serves a reviewed checkout from localhost under a
restrictive browser Content Security Policy: external structure and alignment controls are disabled,
and an egress-canary test fails if a synthetic private-data marker reaches an external request. A
hosted page can still change the code it serves on a later visit; the strongest boundary is a reviewed
versioned checkout with locally pinned assets.

Supported now.
   • Local small-molecule work: construct in synchronized 2D/3D; validate the graph; run
     RDKit or direct-WebGPU calculations; inspect aligned trajectories and energies; export.
     OpenMM WebAssembly supports internal validation and ﬁxed-scaﬀold operations but is not
     a selectable Run-panel method.

                                                 11
  • Protein–ligand pose propagation: capture a trusted pose; preserve atom lineage; sample
    only changed ligand branches; impose optional contact hypotheses; and apply a selected pose
    while the receptor remains ﬁxed. A separate experimental induced-ﬁt action releases the
    ligand and every atom—backbone included—of protein residues entering a 6 Å pocket shell;
    all outer atoms remain ﬁxed.

  • Agent-operated design: call the versioned Chemist Actions API, not arbitrary page code.
    Here the API is a ﬁxed menu of permitted actions; the agent receives the same state-changing
    verbs a chemist can invoke—select, edit, search, apply, relax, and undo—plus read-only in-
    spection. It cannot silently replace coordinates or call arbitrary page functions. Requests run
    one at a time and record sequence, timestamps, arguments, status, and duration.

Proposed.

  • Local-to-specialist escalation: export a checkpoint identiﬁed by a content ﬁngerprint, to-
    gether with an explicit protocol for periodic solvent, long trajectories, free energy, or electronic
    structure; attach returned results as evidence without replacing the local branch. Transport,
    scheduling, signatures, and trust policy are not implemented.

  • Collaborative molecular review: branch by chemotype, protonation state, pose, or author;
    merge by recording decision and parentage, never by averaging coordinates; cite the exact
    branch and replay.

A.4    Git-like history for molecules and decisions
The Git analogy is simple: a snapshot is one molecular state; a commit records that state and why
it was saved; a branch preserves an alternative design route. A merge records which route was
chosen and why. It never averages two molecular structures. This is a custom content-addressed
ledger inspired by Git, not a Git repository or a general three-way molecular merge algorithm.
Three linked record types answer diﬀerent provenance questions:

Current product boundary. The live application currently keeps at most 500 action records
in memory. Clearing the scene clears that audit. Durability therefore requires an explicit Export
API moves or Export replay log download; there is no hidden server sync or automatic molecular
version control. The append-only ledger, commit, branch, decision, and veriﬁcation functions exist
in the repository and drive standalone builders and reviews, but the main interface does not yet
turn a live session into ledger commits with one click.

              Table 5: Separation of operational, numerical, and design provenance.
  Record                     Question                        Contents
  Chemist Actions audit      What was requested?             Public action, arguments, timing, status,
                                                             compact after-state
  Calculation labbook        What numerical protocol ran?    Inputs, method, parameters, outputs,
                                                             hash-linked events
  Design campaign            Why did a state advance or      Snapshots, branches, parents, hypotheses,
                             stop?                           evidence, decisions


   Canonical JSON, SHA-256 ﬁngerprints, parent links, and hash-chained events are standard
provenance mechanisms. Molarium’s contribution is their molecular binding: an operational record

                                                   12
states what was requested, a numerical record states what calculation ran, and a design record states
why one molecular state advanced. Keeping these questions separate prevents a successful replay
from being mistaken for evidence that a design decision was scientiﬁcally sound.
    The ledger implementation uses schema molarium.design-campaign/v1 and stores plain JSON
in a single standardized ordering (canonical JSON). SHA-256 converts each snapshot, action script,
or commit into a 64-character ﬁngerprint: changing even one recorded value changes the ﬁngerprint.
Each commit names its snapshot, parent(s), branch, message, optional action script, hypotheses,
evidence, and tags. Events are append-only and each includes the previous event’s ﬁngerprint,
forming a chain. They also identify the actor (human, agent, system, or import) and source.
Decision states are progressed, not-progressed, deferred, failed, duplicate, superseded,
and archived. Finalization appends a completion event, hashes the campaign, and makes later
additions or edited records fail veriﬁcation. It does not make a JSON ﬁle physically unwritable.
Hashes detect alteration; they are not author signatures.
    Registered design routes and campaign ledgers use separate schemas. The SOS1, BCL-xL, and
CDK2 input protocols use molarium.registered-design-route/v1; they deﬁne the coordinate
boundary, hash-pinned hit, and ordered graph edits. Append-only histories use molarium.design-
campaign/v1; they contain snapshots, commits, branches, events, and decisions. The application
validates a route before loading it, and cross-schema tests reject a route as a ledger or a ledger as
a route. Frozen predictions made before the rename retain their original input hash. A migration
record stores both hashes and is accepted only when replacing the schema identiﬁer reconstructs
the exact frozen bytes; any other ﬁeld change still fails veriﬁcation. Existing replay ﬁles retain the
designCampaign.* action namespace for compatibility; that operation name does not identify the
JSON ledger schema.
    The ﬁngerprint seals one exact recorded representation. Two chemically equivalent SMILES,
tautomers, protonation states, or atom orderings can still produce diﬀerent ﬁngerprints. It proves
record identity—not chemical equivalence, authorship, or truth.
    A decision points to a molecular commit; that commit points to its selected snapshot, parent
commits, action script, hypotheses, and evidence. The following ﬁeld-level sketch shows the linkage.
Full identiﬁers are SHA-256-derived strings rather than the shortened labels shown here.
{
    "moleculeCommit": {
      "snapshotId": "snapshot:<selected-child>",
      "parents": ["commit:<parent>"],
      "actionScriptId": "script:<designer-moves>",
      "hypothesisIds": ["event:<pocket-must-open>"]
    },
    "decisionEvent": {
      "kind": "decision.recorded",
      "actorId": "chemist.01",
      "payload": {
        "targetCommitId": "commit:<selected-child>",
        "disposition": "progressed",
        "reasonCodes": ["contact-loss"],
        "rationale": "Phe-out removes growth-induced clashes.",
        "evidenceIds": ["event:<rotamer-search>"]
      }
    }
}
   The following is an illustrative excerpt, not a complete executable route. The full story also
contains preparation, reference capture, molecular growth, pose search, parameterization, and re-


                                                 13
laxation in the required order. A replay is a list of allowed instructions, not a program:
{
    "schema": "molarium.chemist-action-script/v1",
    "label": "SOS1 selected Phe890 route",
    "actions": [
      {
        "action": "designCampaign.load",
        "args": {"campaignId": "sos1-hit-only"},
        "caption": "Load the coordinate-bearing 5OVE/AXE hit only"
      },
      {
        "action": "pose.applySidechainRotamer",
        "args": {"index": 5},
        "caption": "Apply selected Phe890 rotamer index 5"
      }
    ]
}
     Replay rules:

    • schema molarium.chemist-action-script/v1; standardized JSON; unknown actions, exe-
      cutable code, direct coordinate replacement, and unreasonably large or deeply nested inputs
      are rejected;

    • imported ﬁles are capped at 2 MiB; one action’s arguments are capped at 32 KiB, eight nested
      levels, and 2,048 values;

    • an action may give a name to a returned value, such as a stable atom ID; a later action may
      reuse that name without embedding new code;

    • the runner executes one allowed action at a time through api.execute({action,args}),
      assigns a repeatable request ID from the script ﬁngerprint, and stops at the ﬁrst failure;

    • result schema molarium.chemist-action-replay/v1 records the source ﬁngerprint and ev-
      ery step outcome;

    • import starts on a blank canvas at move zero; Play advances, Pause stops at the next public-
      action boundary, and Restart returns to blank;

    • presentation actions may focus or style the view. They cannot change the molecular graph
      or coordinates except through the same allowed actions.

    A stable URL such as https://molarium.org/sos1-hit-to-bay293 identiﬁes the story. The
friendly URL may point to a newer release later; the release commit and selected-route ﬁle ﬁn-
gerprint 74cbf827a3928a1c...3540f4ab1 identify the exact bytes reviewed. Its canonical action-
script ﬁngerprint 598aa5407fac30ad...878370e identiﬁes the normalized JSON content, so harm-
less whitespace changes do not create a logically new route.
    The practical workﬂow is therefore: capture a trusted starting snapshot; explore poses or con-
formations while saving the action audit; apply and relax a selected state while saving its numerical
record; record the decision and parentage in the ledger; and publish the replay script, result, re-
lease commit, and ﬁngerprints together. The ﬁrst three steps run in the live product. The one-click
conversion of those exports into the ﬁnal ledger remains to be wired into that interface.



                                                 14
A.5    SOS1 hit-to-BAY-293 interface movie
The movie replays the selected SOS1 route from the series reported by Hillig and colleagues [19].
The published analogue graphs for AWT, AWZ, AWW, and AXH were supplied. Their poses
and receptor conformations were not. Thus the blinded question was where each known analogue
would sit and whether its growth required the pocket to reorganize—not which compound to invent,
whether to synthesize it, or what potency it would have. The boundary was:

   • the sole coordinate-bearing design input was 5OVE/AXE;

   • each analogue began from the preceding frozen prediction, never from the corresponding later
     crystal;

   • the selected route contains 33 recorded API actions: 29 molecular or protocol operations and
     four workspace switches;

   • the complete exploration audit contains 89 completed API calls, including three Phe890/pose
     branches, nine undo calls, and deterministic reselection; these are operational records, not
     formal ledger decisions;

   • the interface presentation adds 15 display-only actions, for 48 replay steps in the ﬁlm;

   • later crystals: opened only after four prediction checkpoints and the audit were hashed;

   • display and focus actions could not change the graph or coordinates.

   These are substantial graph rewrites rather than a sequence of single-atom substitutions. Table 6
counts the atom lineage retained across each change. The ﬁrst transition also had four possible
graph mappings; the later transitions each had one.

             Table 6: Heavy-atom lineage across the supplied SOS1 analogue graphs.
                     Transition    Retained   Deleted   Added   Candidate mappings
                     AXE–AWT            23         4        6                    4
                     AWT–AWZ            19        10       12                    1
                     AWZ–AWW            16        15       15                    1
                     AWW–AXH            15        16       17                    1


    “64 search chains” means 64 independently seeded local pose searches, not 64 protein chains.
“Parameterize without motion” means assign coeﬃcients while leaving coordinates unchanged; only
the following relaxation may move atoms. The experimental SOS1 route used whole-system Sage
2.1.0/Gasteiger preparation, not the prepared Rosemary ﬁxtures. AWT, AWZ, AWW, and AXH
contained 7,929, 7,933, 7,935, and 7,937 particles, respectively. This charge-model boundary is part
of the method, not a standard Sage AM1-BCC or NAGL preparation.
    Before ﬂexible relaxation, the application stores the ligand bond lengths. It restores the previous
pose if any heavy-atom bond is both more than 0.45 Å longer and 1.25-fold its assigned target, or
both more than 0.35 Å shorter and below 0.75-fold its target. A lower pose score therefore cannot
buy a broken molecule.




                                                  15
Table 7: Scientiﬁc beats in the SOS1 replay. Predictions, not future crystals, seed the next step.
  Beat       Visible action                     State/evidence
  0          Load and prepare                   5OVE/AXE only; capture compound 1 reference and hit
                                                boundary
  1          Rewrite to compound 17 (AWT)       Run 64 independent reference-guided pose searches; apply
                                                the selected pose; parameterize; relax
  2          Merge to compound 18 (AWZ)         Propagate from predicted AWT, not 5OVF; apply,
                                                parameterize, relax
  3          Grow compound 21 (AWW)             New ring enters the Phe890-in volume; the ﬁxed-core
                                                representative gains four clashes
  4          Resolve the pocket                 Enumerate discrete Phe890 rotamers; select the outward
                                                branch; accept its moved receptor as the next reference
  5          Predict BAY-293 (AXH)              Grow from frozen AWW; 64-chain pose search; apply,
                                                parameterize without motion, relax, freeze
  6          Reveal holdouts                    Compare AWT/AWZ/AWW/BAY-293 with
                                                5OVF/5OVG/5OVH/5OVI



    The conformational step is necessary because local minimization normally cannot cross the
torsional barrier between side-chain rotamers. Molarium therefore created separate starting basins
before local ligand–pocket relaxation. It ranked feasible branches ﬁrst by the fewest clashes added
by growth, then by pose score and ﬁnite relaxed energy. The nominal −60◦ branch added four
clashes above the ﬁxed-core baseline and was infeasible; the −180◦ branch added none and was
selected; the +60◦ branch added two and remained a feasible alternative. This is the causal point
of the story: the analogue’s growth made the inward state untenable before 5OVH or 5OVI was
opened.
    For structural evaluation, each predicted receptor was aligned to its holdout on 23, 25, 25, and
27 pocket Cα atoms for AWT through AXH. Ligand RMSD was then computed over 29, 31, 31,
and 32 heavy atoms, minimizing over 2, 1, 1, and 1 graph-symmetry mappings, respectively. The
ligand itself was not ﬁtted.

Table 8: Post-freeze structural evaluation. Torsions are predicted/crystal in degrees; ligand RMSD
is receptor-aligned and graph-symmetry-minimized.
               Prediction      Holdout   Ligand RMSD (Å)   Phe890 chi1       Phe890 chi2
               AWT             5OVF                0.516   -77.6 / -71.5     -71.7 / -71.7
               AWZ             5OVG                1.528   -73.4 / -75.6     -92.0 / -87.9
               AWW             5OVH                2.137   -172.2 / +175.8   +116.1 / +76.3
               BAY-293         5OVI                1.215   -172.4 / -166.5   +108.7 / +71.7


    The ligand poses are useful but not atom-perfect. The central success is the prospective pocket
switch. The replay recovered the experimentally observed outward χ1 basin before seeing 5OVH
or 5OVI; it did not recover the exact χ2 terminal-ring orientation, which diﬀers by approximately
40◦ for AWW and 37◦ for BAY-293.
    The interface ﬁlm starts on a genuinely blank canvas, selects the same JSON available to readers
through Designer moves, and presses the visible Play control. Subsequent operations run through
the public Chemist Actions API while the corresponding visible control is highlighted; the renderer
does not literally click every individual control. Unused panels collapse. Candidate generation
holds its result list while coordinates remain frozen, and only Apply changes the molecular state.
    The ﬁlm shows discrete before/after molecular states. It does not interpolate coordinates or

                                                    16
present the transition as molecular dynamics. Result frames are held for roughly 0.9–3.4 s so a
reader can inspect new information. The current 62.58-s interface cut condenses approximately
908.5 s of durations in its 48-action audit; full operation durations remain in the audit and render
manifest. The ﬁlm is therefore an explanatory replay, not a runtime benchmark.
   The current replay code can focus on heavy atoms displaced by at least 0.08 Å, highlight up to
the 24 largest changes, and retain their local context. The existing complete MP4 predates that
changed-region mode and uses component-level focus. It must be regenerated before submission if
the paper claims that red changed-atom emphasis appears in the delivered cut.
   Tyr884 is separate historical context. Comparing fragment-bound 6EPM with 5OVE shows that
the inhibitory Tyr884 arrangement already exists in the starting 5OVE coordinates. The hit-only
route predicts no Tyr884 movement.
   Recommended main-text frames are: (1) blank imported story; (2) 5OVE hit boundary; (3)
AWW/Phe890-in clash; (4) applied Phe890-out branch; (5) frozen BAY-293 prediction; and (6)
separately labelled post-freeze 5OVI comparison.


Code and data availability
The implementation and test suite accompany this manuscript in the Molarium repository. A
versioned public archive, software license, and benchmark dataset are required before public release.


References
 [1] Andreas Haas, Andreas Rossberg, Derek L. Schuﬀ, Ben L. Titzer, Michael Holman, Dan Gohman, Luke
     Wagner, Alon Zakai, and JF Bastien. Bringing the web up to speed with WebAssembly. In Proceedings
     of the 38th ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation, pages
     185–200, 2017. doi: 10.1145/3062341.3062363.

 [2] W3C GPU for the Web Working Group. WebGPU. https://www.w3.org/TR/webgpu/, 2025. Accessed
     2026-08-16.

 [3] Peter Eastman, Jason Swails, John D. Chodera, Robert T. McGibbon, Yutong Zhao, Kyle A.
     Beauchamp, Lee-Ping Wang, Andrew C. Simmonett, Matthew P. Harrigan, Chaya D. Stern, Rafal P.
     Wiewiora, Bernard R. Brooks, and Vijay S. Pande. OpenMM 7: Rapid development of high perfor-
     mance algorithms for molecular dynamics. PLOS Computational Biology, 13(7):e1005659, 2017. doi:
     10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005659.

 [4] Alexander S. Rose and Peter W. Hildebrand. NGL Viewer: A web application for molecular visualization.
     Nucleic Acids Research, 43(W1):W576–W579, 2015. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkv402.

 [5] Gustaf Ahdritz, Nazim Bouatta, Christina Floristean, Sachin Kadyan, Qinghui Xia, William Gerecke,
     Timothy J. O’Donnell, Daniel Berenberg, Ian Fisk, Niccolò Zanichelli, Bo Zhang, et al. OpenFold:
     Retraining AlphaFold2 yields new insights into its learning mechanisms and capacity for generalization.
     Nature Methods, 21(8):1514–1524, 2024. doi: 10.1038/s41592-024-02272-z.

 [6] W3C GPU for the Web Working Group. WebGPU Shading Language. https://www.w3.org/TR/WGSL/,
     2026. Accessed 2026-09-02.

 [7] Sereina Riniker and Gregory A. Landrum. Better informed distance geometry: Using what we know to
     improve conformation generation. Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 55(12):2562–2574,
     2015. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.5b00654.




                                                    17
 [8] Shuzhe Wang, Jagna Witek, Gregory A. Landrum, and Sereina Riniker. Improving conformer generation
     for small rings and macrocycles based on distance geometry and experimental torsional-angle preferences.
     Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling, 60(4):2044–2058, 2020. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.0c00025.

 [9] Thomas A. Halgren. Merck molecular force ﬁeld. I. basis, form, scope, parameterization, and perfor-
     mance of MMFF94. Journal of Computational Chemistry, 17(5–6):490–519, 1996. doi: 10.1002/(SICI)
     1096-987X(199604)17:5/6<490::AID-JCC1>3.0.CO;2-P.

[10] Anthony K. Rappé, Colleen J. Casewit, K. S. Colwell, William A. Goddard, and W. M. Skiﬀ. UFF, a
     full periodic table force ﬁeld for molecular mechanics and molecular dynamics simulations. Journal of
     the American Chemical Society, 114(25):10024–10035, 1992. doi: 10.1021/ja00051a040.

[11] Simon Boothroyd, Pavan Kumar Behara, Oliver C. Madin, David F. Hahn, Hiromi Jang, Vytautas
     Gapsys, Jeﬀrey R. Wagner, Josh T. Horton, David L. Dotson, Matthew W. Thompson, Jessica Maat,
     Trevor Gokey, Lee-Ping Wang, Daniel J. Cole, Michael K. Gilson, John D. Chodera, Christopher I.
     Bayly, Michael R. Shirts, and David L. Mobley. Development and benchmarking of Open Force Field
     2.0.0: The Sage small molecule force ﬁeld. Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, 19(11):
     3251–3275, 2023. doi: 10.1021/acs.jctc.3c00039.

[12] Johann Gasteiger and Mario Marsili. Iterative partial equalization of orbital electronegativity—a rapid
     access to atomic charges. Tetrahedron, 36(22):3219–3228, 1980. doi: 10.1016/0040-4020(80)80168-2.

[13] Peter Eastman, Raimondas Galvelis, Raúl P. Peláez, Charlles R. A. Abreu, Stephen E. Farr, Emilio
     Gallicchio, Anton Gorenko, Michael M. Henry, Frank Hu, Jing Huang, et al. OpenMM 8: Molecular
     dynamics simulation with machine learning potentials. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 128(1):
     109–116, 2024. doi: 10.1021/acs.jpcb.3c06662.

[14] Alexey Onufriev, Donald Bashford, and David A. Case. Exploring protein native states and large-scale
     conformational changes with a modiﬁed generalized born model. Proteins: Structure, Function, and
     Bioinformatics, 55(2):383–394, 2004. doi: 10.1002/prot.20033.

[15] Jens Glaser, Trung Dac Nguyen, Joshua A. Anderson, Pak Lui, Filippo Spiga, Jaime A. Millan, David C.
     Morse, and Sharon C. Glotzer. Strong scaling of general-purpose molecular dynamics simulations on
     GPUs. Computer Physics Communications, 192:97–107, 2015. doi: 10.1016/j.cpc.2015.02.028.

[16] Jean-Paul Ryckaert, Giovanni Ciccotti, and Herman J. C. Berendsen. Numerical integration of the
     cartesian equations of motion of a system with constraints: Molecular dynamics of n-alkanes. Journal
     of Computational Physics, 23(3):327–341, 1977. doi: 10.1016/0021-9991(77)90098-5.

[17] Hans C. Andersen. RATTLE: A “velocity” version of the SHAKE algorithm for molecular dynamics
     calculations. Journal of Computational Physics, 52(1):24–34, 1983. doi: 10.1016/0021-9991(83)90014-1.

[18] David S. Cerutti, Rafal Wiewiora, Simon Boothroyd, and Woody Sherman. STORMM: Structure and
     topology replica molecular mechanics for chemical simulations. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 161
     (3):032501, 2024. doi: 10.1063/5.0211032.

[19] Roman C. Hillig, Brice Sautier, Jens Schroeder, Dieter Moosmayer, André Hilpmann, Christian M.
     Stegmann, Nicolas D. Werbeck, Hans Briem, Ulf Boemer, Joerg Weiske, Volker Badock, Julia Mastouri,
     Kirstin Petersen, Gerhard Siemeister, Jan D. Kahmann, Dennis Wegener, Niels Böhnke, Knut Eis,
     Keith Graham, Lars Wortmann, Franz von Nussbaum, and Benjamin Bader. Discovery of potent
     SOS1 inhibitors that block RAS activation via disruption of the RAS–SOS1 interaction. Proceedings
     of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 116(7):2551–2560, 2019. doi:
     10.1073/pnas.1812963116.




                                                    18
