Molarium — Appendix B                                                                  Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



                                              APPENDIX B
  Working with Molarium: scientiﬁc workﬂows for humans
                      and agents

Molarium is designed so that a scientist working through the graphical interface and an agent operating through the
Chemist Actions API act on the same molecular state and encounter the same scientiﬁc boundaries. This appendix
therefore describes Molarium by scientiﬁc task, not by software module.
Each workﬂow begins with the question a scientist is trying to answer. The human procedure explains how to perform
the task and what to inspect before accepting the result. The accompanying agent skill contract expresses the
same procedure as preconditions, permitted actions, evidence, success criteria, and stopping conditions. The two
views are intentionally paired: a procedure should be understandable by a scientist and suﬃciently explicit that an
agent cannot silently change its meaning.
Implementation basis. This appendix describes the inspected browser implementation prepared on 2 September
2026 for the public Molarium release. It distinguishes current browser behavior from executable but experimental
behavior. Repository-only and proposed functionality is not presented as an operating instruction. User-facing
workspace names are View, Design, and Simulate; the serialized values remain view, build, and run so existing
action scripts remain replayable.

B.1    One molecular state, two interfaces
Status. Current browser surface.
The question. What changes the molecule, and what merely changes how I am looking at it?
Molarium separates the authoritative molecular state from the interface used to manipulate it. A scientist can work
in View, Design, and Simulate; an agent can invoke the same guarded scientiﬁc operations through the versioned
Chemist Actions API. Both routes act on the same graph, coordinates, selections, calculation records, and pending
chemistry transaction. Browser-native transport—choosing a local ﬁle, writing to the clipboard, downloading a ﬁle,
or entering fullscreen—remains outside the molecular API; the state-changing operation before or after that boundary
has a named action.
Rotating the camera, changing a representation, focusing a component, or showing contacts changes only the pre-
sentation. Loading a structure, applying a protonation state, ﬁnishing a chemistry transaction, accepting a docking
candidate, running a coordinate-producing Simulate job, or selecting or playing a saved calculation frame changes the
current coordinates or graph. Reﬁned-pose and side-chain alternatives remain candidates until explicitly applied.
The common operating rule. Inspect, act, verify. Generate alternatives freely, but change the authoritative
molecular state deliberately. A valid operation is not automatically a scientiﬁcally appropriate one; acceptance still
depends on the question being asked.
Starting from a structure
Start with ?blank when a reproducible workﬂow should begin from an empty canvas. Otherwise the application loads
its bundled launch molecule. A structure can be pasted as XYZ or PDB text, uploaded as XYZ or PDB, entered as
a SMILES string or PDB identiﬁer in connected mode, or selected from the prepared examples. The current upload
router should not be relied on for ordinary MOL-ﬁle ingestion, even though a V2000 parser exists elsewhere in the
application.
After loading, inspect atom count, formula, formal charge, connected components, graph connectivity, and the 3D
structure. For a selected small-molecule component, compare the synchronized 2D depiction with the 3D graph. For
PDB input, remember that only the ﬁrst model is loaded and alternate locations are resolved by the implemented
occupancy policy. For XYZ input, bonds are inferred from proximity and should be checked rather than assumed.

State and persistence
Loading a new molecule resets incompatible calculation, docking, selection, and preparation state. The working
session is in memory: Clear, page reload, or script import can discard unsaved work. Share copies a URL rather
than serializing the current molecule, and Save produces a PNG rather than a reusable molecular record. Export the




                                                          1
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                       Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



scientiﬁc record needed by the next step before replacing or clearing the scene.
Agent skill contract: operate_molecular_state

 Contract element       Requirement
 Goal                   Load and inspect a starting structure without confusing a visual change, candidate, or imported
                        approximation with an accepted molecular state.
 Preconditions          A supported input or prepared example is available; connected-mode requirements are known.
 Inputs                 Input type and contents; intended component; optional network policy; requested inspection ﬁelds.
 Procedure              Start blank when reproducibility requires it; load through a supported route; inspect graph,
                        components, charge, and coordinates; report ambiguities before any mutation.
 State mutation         A successful load replaces the current molecule and resets dependent state. View and selection
                        operations do not alter graph chemistry.
 Evidence               Source identity or input hash where available; atom/component summary; explicit warnings about
                        inferred bonds, alternate locations, or network retrieval.
 Success                The loaded graph and coordinates correspond to the intended starting object and all material
                        ambiguities have been surfaced.
 On failure             Leave the prior scene in place where the interface does so; report the parse, fetch, or format error;
                        do not reinterpret an unsupported ﬁle silently.
 Boundary               No autosave or complete-session archive; an image or share link is not a reusable molecular state.


Structure text, identiﬁers, and prepared examples have explicit loading actions. A local ﬁle picker only supplies bytes
to session.loadStructure; it is not an alternate molecular loader:
await api.execute({action:"session.loadStructure", args:{
  format:"pdb", content:pdbText, name:"starting complex"}})
// alternatives:
await api.execute({action:"session.loadIdentifier",
  args:{value:"5OVE", kind:"pdb"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.loadFixture",
  args:{fixtureId:"trp-cage"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"all", includeCoordinates:false, maximumAtoms:500}})
await api.execute({action:"view.setDisplay",
  args:{representation:"both", showHydrogens:false,
        showPocketAtoms:true, showInteractions:true}})

Registered prospective routes and public structure stories retain their narrower guarded loaders (designRoute.load
and structureStory.load).

B.2     Prepare a protein for local molecular design
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. I have an experimental protein structure. What must happen before I can safely edit a ligand or run
a local calculation?
A deposited PDB structure is not automatically a simulation-ready system. Atoms may be missing, alternate locations
may have been chosen, protonation can be ambiguous, crystallographic waters may or may not matter, and ligands
or unusual residues may exceed the supported parameterization. Molarium’s preparation workﬂow is deliberately
conservative: it makes a bounded set of assumptions explicit, performs repairs it knows how to perform, and stops
when the structure exceeds those capabilities.

Human workﬂow
 1. Load the PDB structure and inspect the protein, ligand, waters, other components, and the region around the
    intended binding site before preparing anything.
 2. Open Protein Preparation. Choose pH, histidine policy, supported missing-heavy-atom repair, ligand treat-
    ment, water treatment, and gap policy.
 3. Run Prepare structure. Molarium constructs an internal preview that inventories residues, missing atoms,
    sequence gaps, ligands, waters, clashes, and invalid coordinates. Within scope, it can retrieve CCD information,


                                                            2
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



    reconstruct supported missing side-chain atoms, add standard hydrogens and terminal oxygen, choose histidine
    states, and scan polar-hydrogen orientations.
 4. An unresolved blocker stops the operation and exposes the preview for review. A blocker-free preview is immedi-
    ately parameterized and applied; there is no normal second Apply step.
 5. Inspect every applied change, warning, and attached audit. Download the preparation report if the decisions
    must survive the browser session.

What should I inspect?
• Ligand identity, connectivity, completeness, and whether it should be retained or excluded.
• Histidine and other local protonation choices near the ligand or catalytic region.
• Crystallographic waters that bridge interactions or deﬁne the local geometry.
• Missing atoms, chain breaks, unresolved regions, reconstructed geometry, and severe clashes near the region of
  interest.
• Whether the resulting force-ﬁeld and charge assumptions match the scientiﬁc question.
Acceptance is narrower than success. A clean preview means Molarium completed its declared preparation
procedure. It does not certify a production molecular-dynamics system. The implementation explicitly records
readyForProductionSimulation: false.
Preparation blocks unsupported residues, unsupported missing atoms, incomplete retained ligands, disallowed gaps,
invalid coordinates, and severe clashes. It does not currently construct missing loops or membranes, model general
metal coordination, parameterize covalent ligands, or build periodic explicit-solvent boxes. Arbitrary proteins use an
experimental Sage/Gasteiger route.
Agent skill contract: prepare_protein

 Contract element       Requirement
 Goal                   Convert the loaded PDB into an explicitly reviewed molecular state suitable for a supported local
                        Molarium calculation.
 Preconditions          A PDB-derived structure is loaded; the intended downstream use is known; ligand and water roles
                        can be reviewed.
 Inputs                 pH; histidine policy; missing-heavy-atom repair policy; ligand policy; water policy; gap policy.
 Procedure              Inspect the starting structure; run preparation; review any blocking preview or the applied result;
                        export the report when persistence matters; stop on unresolved blockers.
 State mutation         Prepared graph and coordinates replace the prior state; preparation audit and parameterization
                        are attached; one undo snapshot is created.
 Evidence               Options, detected issues, repairs, warnings and blockers, preparation report, and resulting
                        parameterization identity.
 Success                The declared procedure completes without unresolved blockers and its scope matches the intended
                        local calculation.
 Failure behavior       Report the blocker and stop. Do not manufacture missing atoms, parameters, loop geometry, or
                        unsupported chemistry.
 Escalate when          The problem requires loops, membranes, metal coordination, covalent chemistry, periodic solvent,
                        or another unsupported preparation capability.
 Does not establish     Production simulation readiness or physical accuracy of the chosen downstream model.


Representative public actions are:
await api.execute({action:"protein.prepare", args:{
  pH:7.4, histidine:"auto", repairMissingHeavy:true,
  ligandPolicy:"ccd", waterPolicy:"crucial", gapPolicy:"block"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:false, maximumAtoms:500}})

The preparation action already parameterizes and applies a blocker-free result. protein.parameterize is a separate
alternative for an already prepared or subsequently edited complex, not the next mandatory call. The exact argument
vocabulary returned by api.describe() is the runtime authority; this sequence illustrates the contract rather than



                                                            3
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                        Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



replacing that manifest.

B.3    Choose the protonation state you are designing
Status. Current ligand workﬂow; protein choices within experimental preparation.
The question. What charged and protonated species does the molecular graph actually represent?
Protonation is part of chemical identity, not a cosmetic display choice. It changes formal charge, hydrogen count,
hydrogen-bonding patterns, parameterization, and often the meaning of every calculation that follows. Molarium ex-
poses two related but distinct workﬂows: ligand-state enumeration through RDKit, and protein protonation decisions
inside the bounded PDB-preparation workﬂow.

Ligand workﬂow
 1. Load the ligand from a SMILES string or select the ligand component whose identity you intend to change.
 2. Choose a pH from 0 to 14 and enumerate candidate states. RDKit applies a versioned Dimorphite-style site table,
    edits formal charges and hydrogens, sanitizes each result, and returns an ordered list with estimated weights.
 3. Inspect each candidate as chemistry: total charge, changed atoms, tautomeric or aromatic consequences, and
    compatibility with known assay conditions or the bound environment.
 4. Apply one state deliberately. Molarium re-embeds the chosen species, replaces the graph and coordinates, and
    invalidates state that depended on the former topology.

Protein workﬂow
For a PDB structure, set the pH and histidine policy during preparation. The implemented policies include automatic
selection or explicit HID, HIE, and HIP choices, followed by inspection of polar-hydrogen orientations. Treat residues
near a ligand, metal, catalytic center, or salt-bridge network as scientiﬁc decisions rather than defaults.
What the reported ligand weights mean. They are independent Henderson-Hasselbalch estimates from the
implemented site model. They are not microscopic pKa predictions, coupled-site populations, or evidence for the
state selected by a protein binding site.
Agent skill contract: select_protonation_state

 Contract element          Requirement
 Goal                      Make the intended protonation and formal-charge state explicit before editing or calculation.
 Preconditions             A valid ligand or PDB structure is loaded; the relevant pH or experimental condition is known or
                           stated as an assumption.
 Inputs                    pH; candidate-state selection; for proteins, histidine policy and local residues requiring review.
 Procedure                 Enumerate or preview; compare candidates; inspect charge and local interactions; apply exactly
                           one accepted state; re-inspect the resulting graph.
 State mutation            Applying a ligand state replaces graph and coordinates. Protein protonation changes are
                           committed through preparation. Prior parameterization becomes obsolete.
 Evidence                  pH, enumeration or preparation output, chosen state, total charge, changed sites, and stated
                           rationale when more than one state is plausible.
 Success                   The authoritative graph explicitly represents the intended state and downstream methods will see
                           the corresponding atoms and charges.
 On failure                Report invalid pH, sanitization, embedding, or worker errors; do not partially apply or choose a
                           diﬀerent state merely because it runs.
 Boundary                  Enumeration weights do not resolve coupled microscopic states or protein-induced pKa shifts.


Ligand-state enumeration and application use the same bounded worker and graph replacement as the visible pH
controls:
await api.execute({action:"ligand.enumerateProtonation",
  args:{pH:7.4, maximumStates:16}})
await api.execute({action:"ligand.applyProtonation", args:{index:0}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"ligand", includeCoordinates:false}})




                                                               4
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                     Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



Enumeration does not select a chemically correct state. The chosen index remains a reviewable scientiﬁc decision;
protein protonation is carried separately within protein.prepare.

B.4     Edit atoms, bonds, charges, and stereochemistry in 3D
Status. Current browser surface.
The question. How do I change the chemistry without corrupting the molecular graph or losing the ability to undo
the operation?
The synchronized 2D and 3D views are two ways of selecting the same graph. Chemistry-changing actions are grouped
into a transaction so that a related set of edits can be validated and committed as one scientiﬁc step. Protein covalent
atoms are protected from ordinary ligand editing.

Human workﬂow
 1. Enter Design and select the relevant atom or bond in either view. Conﬁrm the stable atom identity and local
    environment before changing it.
 2. Apply the intended element replacement, bond order or aromaticity change, formal charge, explicit hydrogen, or
    stereochemical operation. Related operations remain in one pending chemistry transaction.
 3. For coordinate-only geometry changes, select a connected path of two, three, or four atoms to set a distance,
    angle, or dihedral. Molarium moves the connected side deﬁned by the graph and blocks ambiguous ring cuts.
 4. Choose Finish chemistry. RDKit sanitizes the graph, hydrogens are reconciled, eligible local coordinates are
    polished, reference contacts are remapped where applicable, obsolete parameterization is invalidated, and a single
    undo snapshot is created.
 5. If validation fails, correct the still-pending transaction or choose Discard to restore the pre-edit state. Use
    Undo/Redo only after a transaction has been committed.

What should I inspect?
• Valence, formal charge, aromaticity, hydrogen count, stereochemistry, and the intended bond topology.
• Whether the 2D depiction and 3D graph agree after sanitization.
• New close contacts, distorted local geometry, and movement outside the edited region.
• Whether topology-dependent records—parameterization, docking mapping, or calculation results—were invalidated
  or remapped as expected.
A synchronous mutation error restores the transaction snapshot. If the chemistry is valid but optional coordinate
polishing fails, the valid graph can remain committed and the cleanup error is recorded. Fused-aromatic edits that
cannot preserve the aromatic graph are rejected rather than approximated.
Distance, angle, dihedral, atom translation, and graph-chemistry controls all have named actions. A representative
graph edit follows; coordinate-only edits use geometry.setInternalCoordinate or geometry.translateAtoms and
remain separate from chemistry.finish.
Agent skill contract: edit_molecular_graph

 Contract element        Requirement
 Goal                    Apply an explicit, reviewable graph or local-geometry change while preserving atomic lineage and
                         undoability.
 Preconditions           The intended editable component is identiﬁed; no unrelated transaction is pending; the target
                         atoms or bond are unambiguous.
 Inputs                  Selected stable atom identiﬁers; edit type and value; optional connected geometry path; intended
                         transaction boundary.
 Procedure               Inspect target; open or join a transaction; apply supported edits; ﬁnish once; inspect sanitized
                         graph and local coordinates.
 State mutation          Graph edits remain provisional until Finish. Finish commits one new state and invalidates
                         obsolete parameterization; Discard restores the starting state.
 Evidence                Pre-edit identity, ordered public actions, changed atoms and bonds, sanitization outcome, cleanup
                         outcome, and ﬁnal inspection.
                                                                                                 Continued on next page



                                                            5
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                       Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



 Contract element        Requirement
 Success                 The ﬁnal graph encodes the intended chemistry, sanitizes successfully, and passes local visual and
                         structural checks.
 On failure              Keep the transaction pending for correction or discard it. Never bypass sanitization or inject
                         coordinates directly.
 Boundary                Local graph validity does not establish synthetic feasibility, tautomer preference, binding aﬃnity,
                         or global conformational plausibility.


await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"build.setTool", args:{tool:"select"}})
await api.execute({action:"selection.replace", args:{atomIds:[anchorId]}})
await api.execute({action:"chemistry.addAtom",
  args:{attachedToAtomId:anchorId, element:"Cl"}})
await api.execute({action:"chemistry.finish", args:{}})
await api.execute({action:"geometry.setInternalCoordinate",
  args:{atomIds:[a,b,c,d], value:172.0, moveConnected:true}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"ligand", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:200}})

The serialized value build selects the user-facing Design workspace; it is retained for action-script compatibility.

B.5    Grow an analogue by adding and positioning fragments
Status. Current Design workspace; pose-aware extensions experimental.
The question. How do I add the substituent I have in mind while preserving the useful context of the parent
structure?
Fragment growth combines a graph edit with an initial 3D placement. Those are separate scientiﬁc problems: the new
molecule must ﬁrst be chemically correct, and its coordinates must then be a plausible starting point for relaxation
or pose maintenance. Molarium’s Design workspace stages a fragment template and applies its attachment as one
undoable edit. Subsequent atom, bond, charge, hydrogen, or stereochemical changes use the pending chemistry
transaction described above.
Human workﬂow
 1. If the parent is bound and its pose matters, capture the reference pose before beginning the topology change.
    Retain any explicit core or interaction choices needed for later pose maintenance.
 2. Select the ligand attachment atom and stage the desired fragment or template. Conﬁrm which atoms are new,
    which parent atom remains the anchor, and which bond is to be formed.
 3. Apply the attachment as one undoable fragment edit. Perform any associated leaving-group, bond-order, formal-
    charge, hydrogen, or stereochemical changes as a subsequent pending chemistry transaction.
 4. Use distance, angle, and dihedral controls to give the new group a sensible initial orientation. These controls
    establish a starting geometry; they do not score the binding site.
 5. Finish any subsequent pending chemistry, then inspect the attachment, local valence, stereochemistry, ring geom-
    etry, clashes, and preserved parent coordinates. Relax the structure or invoke reference-guided pose maintenance
    as a separate step.

How should I judge the result?
A successful fragment operation means that the intended graph was built and sanitized. It does not mean that the
chosen rotamer, ring conformation, or pocket orientation is preferred. For a solvent-exposed edit, local minimization
may be enough to remove construction strain. For an edit that changes pocket contacts or releases a ring, use a
workﬂow that samples alternatives and retains the relationship to the experimental reference.
Enumeration boundary. Development modules can represent bounded edit plans, but general combinatorial enu-
meration, library management, automated campaign selection, and automatic MCS transfer of an independently
imported analogue are not current workbench workﬂows.
Agent skill contract: grow_fragment


                                                             6
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                      Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



 Contract element       Requirement
 Goal                   Construct one intended analogue and a reviewable starting geometry while retaining parent atom
                        lineage and, when requested, reference-pose context.
 Preconditions          Editable ligand and attachment atom identiﬁed; fragment chemistry speciﬁed; reference captured
                        ﬁrst if pose continuity matters.
 Inputs                 Parent and attachment atom identiﬁers; fragment/template; new bond; associated deletions,
                        charge or stereochemical edits; optional geometry targets.
 Procedure              Capture reference if needed; stage and attach the fragment; perform and ﬁnish any associated
                        atom/bond transaction; set only the geometry needed for a starting pose; inspect; relax or sample
                        separately.
 State mutation         Attachment commits the fragment graph and an undo snapshot immediately. Finishing a later
                        atom/bond transaction commits those additional changes. A later pose or optimization changes
                        coordinates separately.
 Evidence               Parent and product inspection, atom mapping, edit actions, transaction outcome, initial placement
                        rationale, and any preserved reference/contact record.
 Success                The attached analogue graph is correct on inspection; any subsequent chemistry transaction is
                        sanitized; the initial geometry has no obvious construction pathology and is suitable for the chosen
                        next workﬂow.
 On failure             A failed attachment leaves the prior molecule in place. Correct or discard any subsequent pending
                        chemistry transaction. Do not treat failed cleanup as permission to accept an invalid graph or
                        arbitrary pose.
 Boundary               Fragment growth is not combinatorial design, synthesis planning, global docking, or proof that the
                        new group is energetically favored.


Generic fragment-template staging and attachment use fragment.stage and fragment.attach; individual atom-
/bond edits and registered designRoute.applyStep operations remain available. For a registered, hash-pinned
prospective route, an agent can stage a predeﬁned product graph. attachmentAtomId is required only when that
route declares designer-directed spatialIntent; the SOS1 route does not:
await api.execute({action:"fragment.stage",
  args:{smiles:"c1ccncc1", name:"pyridyl", attachmentIndex:0}})
await api.execute({action:"fragment.attach",
  args:{attachedToAtomId:anchorId}})

await api.execute({action:"designRoute.load",
  args:{routeId:"sos1-hit-only"}})
await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"protein.prepare", args:{
  pH:7.4, histidine:"auto", repairMissingHeavy:true,
  ligandPolicy:"ccd", waterPolicy:"retain", gapPolicy:"cap"}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.captureReference",
  args:{mode:"propagate"}})
await api.execute({action:"designRoute.applyStep",
  args:{stepId:"scaffold-rewrite"}})
await api.execute({action:"designRoute.inspect", args:{}})

Registered routes constrain prospective inputs and permitted edits; they are not retrospective campaign ledgers.

B.6     Relax a structure, run bounded dynamics, and inspect motion
Status. Current and experimental methods with diﬀerent scopes.
The question. I have made a structure. Does its geometry survive relaxation, and what moves during a short
calculation?
Choose the method from the scientiﬁc question, not from a generic expectation that every engine answers the same
thing. Molarium exposes several numerical pathways whose energies are not interchangeable. Record the selected
model, solvent, constraints, and protocol before interpreting the result.




                                                            7
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                          Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



        Question                   Method          What it provides                     Principal boundary
        Small-molecule cleanup     RDKit          Energy, geometry optimization,        The reported 0.1 fs dynamics
        or short force-ﬁeld mo-                   and short dynamics using the          path is a workbench calculation,
        tion                                      RDKit force-ﬁeld path.                not a production trajectory.
        Sage energy,      relax-   Direct   We-   Browser-GPU energy, forces, ge-       Experimental; f32; direct dynam-
        ation,    or bounded       bGPU           ometry, and saved frames from         ics capped at 5,000 steps; no PBC
        single-system MD                          the numeric Sage system.              or PME.
        Many replicas of one       WebGPU en-     Homogeneous replica dynamics          Experimental; at most 512 atoms
        topology                   semble         with energies, frames, timing,        per replica, 1,024 replicas, and
                                                  and constraint diagnostics.           100,000 steps; nonperiodic all-
                                                                                        pairs model.
        Electronic energy or ge-   ANI-2x          Eight-model ANI-2x ensemble          Experimental; connected neu-
        ometry for an eligible                     energy, spread, analytical forces,   tral singlets with explicit H;
        neutral molecule                           and optional optimized coordi-       H/C/N/O/S/F/Cl only; at most
                                                   nates.                               96 atoms.
        Reference calculation      OpenMM 8.2      Double-precision internal pa-        Internal subsystem,        not a
        inside another workﬂow     Reference       rameterization, scoring, relax-      selectable    general     Simulate
                                                   ation, and validation path.          method.



Human workﬂow
 1. Finish any pending chemistry. Conﬁrm that the molecule is eligible for the chosen engine and, where required,
    can be completely parameterized.
 2. In Simulate, choose the job and compatible method. Set the step count, vacuum or OBC2/ACE implicit solvent,
    X-H constraints where supported, saved frames, and ensemble options.
 3. Run once. Inspect the engine or model identity, force ﬁeld, charge model, solvent, constraints, initial and ﬁnal
    energy, convergence or diagnostic status, elapsed time, and all warnings.
 4. For dynamics, step through saved frames or replicas and inspect the region relevant to the design question. Display
    alignment does not overwrite raw calculation coordinates.
 5. Review or export coordinates only when the result passes the declared acceptance check. Coordinate-producing
    jobs immediately update the current coordinates when they complete, and selecting or playing a saved frame writes
    that frame into the current molecule. Export the starting coordinates ﬁrst when reversibility matters. Current-
    frame XYZ is available; saved frames are a bounded sample, and the workbench has no generic full-trajectory-ﬁle
    export.

Interpreting the model
Automatic Sage parameterization uses deterministic Gasteiger charges rather than AM1-BCC or NAGL. Unsupported
elements, invalid chemistry, or missing required parameters fail instead of silently dropping terms. The exposed
workﬂows are nonperiodic and do not provide PME, a barostat, explicit-solvent setup, generic production protein
simulation, or binding free energy.
Agent skill contract: relax_or_simulate

 Contract element         Requirement
 Goal                     Use a declared numerical model to test local geometry or bounded motion and retain enough
                          metadata to interpret the result.
 Preconditions            No chemistry transaction is pending; method eligibility and complete parameterization are
                          established; an acceptance observable is speciﬁed.
 Inputs                   Job; method; steps; solvent; constraints; saved frames; ﬁxed or movable atoms where supported;
                          ensemble settings.
 Procedure                Validate eligibility; record model and protocol; export the starting coordinates when reversibility
                          matters; run one compatible job; inspect energies, diagnostics, and frames.
 State mutation           Energy jobs do not move the molecule. Successful coordinate-producing jobs immediately replace
                          current coordinates, and selecting a saved frame also writes current coordinates; raw frames
                          remain calculation records.
                                                                                                      Continued on next page



                                                               8
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                      Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



 Contract element       Requirement
 Evidence               Engine/model version and hashes where recorded, force ﬁeld, charge model, solvent, constraints,
                        timestep, energies, convergence/diagnostics, timing, frames, and warnings.
 Success                The worker returns a ﬁnite, internally valid result and the predeﬁned structural check is satisﬁed
                        within the method’s declared scope.
 On failure             Keep the prior graph and coordinates; record the returned error; correct eligibility, options, or
                        assets before retrying.
 Boundary               A minimized pose or short stable trace is not an aﬃnity estimate, equilibrium ensemble,
                        free-energy calculation, or production trajectory.


The current public API exposes a bounded Design optimizer:
await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"optimization.run",
  args:{method:"induced-fit-webgpu"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:500}})

General Simulate jobs use calculation.run; the action accepts only the installed engine/job combinations and the
same bounded options as the interface. Selecting a returned frame is explicit because it writes those coordinates into
the current molecule:
await api.execute({action:"calculation.run", args:{
  job:"dynamics", method:"stormm",
  options:{stormmSystem:"current", steps:1000,
           savedFrameCount:20, replicaCount:32}}})
await api.execute({action:"calculation.selectFrame", args:{index:19}})


B.7    Explore conformations with Conformer Arena
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. What other conformations can this molecule adopt, and how sensitive is the answer to the generation
and reﬁnement method?
Conformer search is an alternative-generation problem. Molarium separates seed generation, physical reﬁnement,
clustering, comparison, and selection so that a low-energy-looking structure is not confused with proof that the
ensemble is complete or Boltzmann weighted.
Human workﬂow
 1. Start from a chemically ﬁnished small molecule with explicit hydrogens and a sensible protonation state. Recenter
    the structure before tight STORMM positional comparisons, because ﬁxed-point spatial precision degrades far
    from the working origin.
 2. Choose WebGPU ensemble and Conformer search. Set the requested conformer count, eﬀort, clustering
    cutoﬀ, solvent/constraint options, and whether to open the comparison arena.
 3. Molarium generates deterministic RDKit conformer seeds, up to the implemented cap of 256. The STORMM
    protocol then performs staged relaxation, heating at 600 K, cooling through 450 K and 300 K, and ﬁnal relaxation
    across homogeneous replicas.
 4. Inspect the returned ensemble before selecting a representative: energy range, distinct RMSD clusters, cluster
    populations, recurring torsions, ring states, constraint diagnostics, and obvious duplicates or failures.
 5. Use Conformer Arena to compare supported pathways on the same molecule and settings. Ask whether the
    methods discover the same basins, not merely whether they rank one shared conformer similarly.
 6. Select a conformer only after inspection. Selection changes the displayed/current coordinates. Export the ensem-
    ble as SDF when it ﬁts V2000 record limits; retain method and clustering metadata separately.

What does the result establish?
The workﬂow shows which basins the declared ﬁnite search found and how the supported methods behaved on that
search. The anneal/minimize protocol is a search heuristic, so replica counts and cluster frequencies are not thermo-


                                                            9
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                       Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



dynamic populations. Failure to ﬁnd a conformation is not evidence that it is inaccessible, and energy diﬀerences
from diﬀerent force ﬁelds are not directly comparable.
Agent skill contract: explore_conformers

 Contract element       Requirement
 Goal                   Generate, reﬁne, cluster, and compare a ﬁnite set of conformational alternatives for one molecular
                        topology.
 Preconditions          Chemistry and protonation are ﬁnalized; molecule is eligible; intended use and comparison metric
                        are stated.
 Inputs                 Conformer count; eﬀort; cluster cutoﬀ; seed; solvent and constraints; arena choice; acceptance or
                        diversity criteria.
 Procedure              Generate RDKit seeds; run declared reﬁnement protocol; cluster and inspect; compare basins in
                        Arena when requested; select or export without rewriting raw records.
 State mutation         Search produces an ensemble and raw calculation evidence. Selecting a frame or conformer writes
                        its coordinates into the current molecule.
 Evidence               Seed and method identity, requested and returned counts, energies, cluster assignments,
                        diagnostics, timings, and exported ensemble where applicable.
 Success                A ﬁnite set of valid, distinct candidates is produced and its diversity is suﬃcient for the stated
                        downstream purpose.
 On failure             Report parameterization, eligibility, replica, overﬂow, or pair-work limits; reduce scope or escalate
                        rather than hiding missing replicas.
 Boundary               Not exhaustive conformational sampling, a Boltzmann ensemble, solution free energies, or proof of
                        bioactive-conformation probability.


Conformer search and Arena use calculation.run; result selection uses calculation.selectConformer. Arena
axes, ﬁltering, and sorting are presentation controls exposed through calculation.setConformerView; they do not
create new conformers:
await api.execute({action:"calculation.run", args:{
  job:"conformers", method:"stormm",
  options:{conformerCount:32, conformerEffort:"standard",
           conformerClusterRms:0.75, conformerArena:true}}})
await api.execute({action:"calculation.selectConformer", args:{rank:0}})


B.8     Predict a short single-chain protein structure
Status. Experimental current surface; connected mode only.
The question. Can Molarium create a protein structure from sequence, and is this the co-folding workﬂow?
This is not currently co-folding. The implemented workﬂow predicts one protein entity from one sequence. It
does not accept a ligand for joint protein-ligand prediction, does not predict a multimer, and does not maintain a
starting ligand pose. Calling it co-folding would overstate the present capability.
The Fold Protein panel combines a conﬁgured remote MSA service with local OpenFold ONNX inference. The
sequence is transmitted to the selected MSA endpoint; model inference then runs in the browser, preferring WebGPU
and falling back to WASM. Local Lab disables the external MSA path.

Human workﬂow
 1. Enter one amino-acid sequence using the standard residue alphabet or X. The current maximum length is 128
    residues, using 64- or 128-residue feature buckets.
 2. Inspect and accept the conﬁgured MSA endpoint and network boundary. First use may require approximately
    540 MB of model assets.
 3. Run and monitor MSA and inference progress. The current browser model executes three recycle passes; this
    count is not user-conﬁgurable. Cancel aborts the active MSA/prediction controller.
 4. On success, Molarium loads the prediction as the current molecule. Inspect chain completeness, residue mapping,
    gross geometry, and suitability for the downstream question before replacing other work.
 5. Export the predicted structure as PDB if it must persist. Preparation and local relaxation are separate decisions.


                                                            10
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                       Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



The current path does not use templates or perform Amber relaxation. It creates no server-side job ledger. Fetch,
archive, feature, model, or inference failure produces no partial prediction. A returned structure is a model output,
not experimental evidence or a prepared simulation system.
Agent skill contract: predict_protein_structure

 Contract element        Requirement
 Goal                    Predict coordinates for one short protein sequence using the declared MSA service and local
                         OpenFold model.
 Preconditions           Connected mode; conﬁgured MSA endpoint; sequence length at most 128; network and
                         model-asset use accepted.
 Inputs                  One sequence and MSA endpoint; the current model uses three recycle passes.
 Procedure               Validate sequence; disclose external transmission; obtain and validate MSA; run the matching
                         ONNX bucket; inspect result; export before replacing it.
 State mutation          A successful prediction replaces the current molecule. Failure does not load a partial structure.
 Evidence                Input sequence and endpoint, model/bucket and executed recycle count, progress/failure record,
                         prediction metadata, and exported PDB where required.
 Success                 A complete ﬁnite prediction is returned for the declared input and passes basic structural
                         inspection for the intended next step.
 On failure              Report MSA, archive, rate-limit, maintenance, timeout, feature, asset, or inference failure; do not
                         fabricate a partial structure.
 Boundary                No ligand co-folding, multimer prediction, templates, Amber relaxation, experimental validation,
                         or production preparation.


The workﬂow is exposed as protein.predict; protein.cancelPrediction aborts the active request. The MSA
endpoint remains an explicit network boundary rather than a hidden service call:
await api.execute({action:"protein.predict", args:{
  sequence:fastaText, msaEndpoint:"https://msa.example/api"}})
// while active:
await api.execute({action:"protein.cancelPrediction", args:{}})


B.9     Maintain an experimental pose while changing ligand chemistry
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. I trust the experimental pose of my starting ligand. How can I search for a plausible pose of an edited
analogue without discarding what I already know?
Reference-guided docking is a local analogue pose-maintenance workﬂow. It preserves stable atom identities and
selected interactions from a prepared reference complex, searches the degrees of freedom introduced by an edit, rejects
infeasible candidates, and ranks distinct feasible poses in a rigid local receptor site. It is intentionally narrower than
global docking.

Human workﬂow
 1. Prepare and inspect the reference protein-ligand complex. In Design, capture the reference before editing. The
    capture stores ligand lineage, receptor atoms within 8 Å, reference contacts, selected hydrogen bonds, settings,
    and provenance.
 2. Use the default Pose propagation mode to map surviving reference atoms and seed the edited region. Use
    Expert selected core only when you can justify at least three connected, non-collinear heavy atoms as a ﬁxed
    reference.
 3. Edit and ﬁnish the analogue. Review remapped or unavailable contacts, transformed ring regions, atom mapping,
    and any constraints before starting the search.
 4. Run the constrained search. Molarium veriﬁes receptor and contact integrity, releases eligible transformed rings,
    generates deterministic feature and torsion seeds, freshly parameterizes the edited ligand, relaxes feasible candi-
    dates, and scores the distinct results.
 5. Inspect the ranked candidates, not only rank 1. Compare mapped-core displacement, preserved or replaced
    interactions, ligand strain, clashes, ring and side-chain choices, and the reasons candidates were rejected.


                                                            11
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                       Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



 6. Apply one candidate explicitly. Candidate generation does not change the authoritative molecule. Application
    rechecks topology and receptor integrity before replacing coordinates. Export the labbook as JSON and human-
    readable Markdown/notes.

What is being scored?
The ranker uses a rigid receptor site within 8 Å, Lennard-Jones and Coulomb ligand-receptor cross terms with relative
dielectric 4, and relative vacuum ligand strain. It omits general receptor relaxation, water displacement, entropy,
binding free energy, and broad macrocycle or fused-ring concerted search. The separate induced-ﬁt Design optimizer
is not part of this ranker and is not an aﬃnity calculation.
Negative results are results. An invalid core, altered receptor, unmappable required atom, unavailable contact
feature, parameterization failure, or absence of feasible candidates produces an explicit failed or negative record.
Molarium does not silently apply the least-bad pose.
Agent skill contract: maintain_reference_pose

 Contract element        Requirement
 Goal                    Generate and review plausible local poses for one edited analogue while retaining explicit
                         relationships to a trusted reference complex.
 Preconditions           Prepared complex; trusted reference pose; reference captured before edit; chemistry ﬁnished;
                         receptor unchanged; required contacts available.
 Inputs                  Pose-propagation or expert-core mode; selected core or contacts; cleanup/contact policy; candidate
                         count; analogue graph.
 Procedure               Capture; edit; ﬁnish; verify mapping and receptor integrity; generate and score feasible candidates;
                         inspect alternatives; apply one explicitly or retain a negative result.
 State mutation          Capture and search create reference and candidate records. Only Apply replaces the current
                         coordinates.
 Evidence                Protocol/settings snapshot, hashes, atom mapping, contact decisions, constraints, rejected
                         candidates, scores, selected pose, and chained labbook.
 Success                 At least one feasible distinct candidate survives the declared constraints and a human or agent can
                         justify any applied selection from the recorded evidence.
 On failure              Apply nothing; preserve the negative labbook; repair the reference, mapping, constraints, or
                         chemistry before rerunning.
 Boundary                Local analogue pose maintenance only—not global docking, automatic MCS pose transfer,
                         receptor-ensemble docking, or aﬃnity/free-energy prediction.


await api.execute({action:"pose.captureReference",
  args:{mode:"propagate"}})
// perform and finish the intended molecular-graph edit
await api.execute({action:"pose.refine",
  args:{searchChains:16}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.apply", args:{index:0}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:500}})

For a receptor-side-chain alternative, the required order is:
await api.execute({action:"pose.enumerateSidechainRotamers",
  args:{receptorAtomId:sidechainAtomId, maximumCandidates:32}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.applySidechainRotamer", args:{index:5}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.updateReceptorReference", args:{}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.refine", args:{searchChains:64}})

Enumeration itself remains non-mutating; the selected receptor coordinates are applied explicitly and then made the
new reference before another ligand-pose search.

B.10      Record, replay, and hand oﬀ a design process
Status. Current action/replay and Design History surfaces.


                                                            12
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                        Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



The question. I have done something scientiﬁcally useful. What must I export so that another scientist or an agent
can understand and reproduce it?
Molarium records several diﬀerent kinds of evidence. They answer diﬀerent questions and should not be treated as
interchangeable. The live action audit says what was requested; a calculation or workﬂow record says what method ran
and what it returned; an action script says how to replay completed public operations; and Design History represents
a durable sequence of content-addressed states and decisions. The current workbench does not automatically combine
every scientiﬁc record into one complete project archive.

 Record                   Question answered                                    Persistence and limit
 Chemist Actions au-      What recognized public action was requested,         Session memory; serialized calls; bounded his-
 dit                      with what arguments and outcome?                     tory, normally 500 entries; cleared with the
                                                                               scene unless exported through a script path.
 Preparation or calcu-    What system, model, settings, energies, frames,      Attached to the in-memory state and available
 lation record            warnings, or audit produced this result?             through workﬂow-speciﬁc reports or exports.
 Docking labbook          How were mapping, feasibility, scoring, rejection,   Exportable JSON and Markdown/notes with
                          and selection handled?                               chained hashes.
 Designer action script   Which completed public actions should be re-         Exportable JSON; replay invokes the same
                          played?                                              guarded routes; not a complete UI or binary
                                                                               session snapshot.
 Registered    design     What prospective, hash-pinned edit/evaluation se-    Validated route schema; distinct from retro-
 route                    quence is permitted?                                 spective history.
 Design History cam-      What content-addressed structures, decisions,        Live browser surface with locally persisted com-
 paign                    commits, and branches form the design history?       mits, branches, merges, decisions, integrity
                                                                               events, import, and export.



Replay workﬂow
Designer Moves import begins from a blank canvas and performs script-level validation of schema, recognized ac-
tion names, binding order, and forbidden shortcut keys. Individual action arguments and molecular preconditions
are checked when each step executes. Conversion from an audit includes only completed public actions and ex-
cludes campaign administration. A standalone script therefore begins with an explicit reproducible loader such as
session.loadStructure, session.loadIdentifier, session.loadFixture, or designRoute.load; it cannot de-
pend on an unrecorded starting scene.
 1. Export any unsaved molecular or workﬂow records before importing a script; import intentionally clears the
    existing scene.
 2. Create a Designer action script from completed recognized public actions. Failed actions remain audit evidence
    but are not silently converted into successful replay steps.
 3. Import the validated script, restart it, and Play or step through it. Replay uses the same Chemist Actions routes,
    runtime validations, and workers as manual operation and produces a separate replay audit.
 4. Compare the resulting graph, coordinates, decisions, and errors with the intended endpoint. Export the replay
    audit and scientiﬁc records needed by the recipient.
 5. For a registered story or route, verify schema, referenced content, and SHA-256 before execution. Treat a hash
    chain as integrity evidence, not an authenticated author identity or proof of scientiﬁc truth.
Replay provides play/pause, previous/next-step review, stable captions, and a separate audit. Failed audit entries
remain evidence but are not converted silently into successful replay steps.

Live Design History
Design History is a live browser feature. campaign.create creates a locally persisted campaign and atomically
commits the visible molecule. campaign.commitCurrent stores a complete graph-and-coordinate snapshot together
with completed public actions since the prior commit. Branch switching restores the exact head molecule and refuses
to proceed when the visible molecular state is dirty. Merge records the currently visible result with two parents; it
is not an automatic structural merge. Decisions attach disposition, rationale, reason codes, and optional evidence to
a commit. Veriﬁcation recomputes content hashes, the append-only event chain, commit relationships, and branch
heads derived from that chain.
Campaign JSON and the active branch are stored in browser IndexedDB. Reload restores the graph and coordinates at

                                                             13
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                       Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



the active branch head; it does not restore parameter tables, docking candidates, calculation frames, view state, or the
complete workbench session. campaign.import veriﬁes the canonical JSON and requires a restorable graph/coordinate
snapshot before mutating live state; campaign.export returns that canonical JSON. Closing a campaign clears the
active pointer without deleting its commits. A live commit can attach a script of completed molecular Chemist
Actions; the complete molecular snapshot remains authoritative. Campaign-management actions are excluded from
molecule replay scripts so replay cannot recursively administer its own history.

Choose the export that matches the handoﬀ

 Export                 Carries                                         Does not carry
 XYZ current frame      Displayed coordinates                           Full topology metadata, history, or provenance
 SDF conformer en-      Exportable conformer graph and coordinates      Unrelated session state or complete search history
 semble
 PDB protein            Imported or predicted protein coordinates       Complete application or preparation provenance
                        and supported annotations
 Preparation JSON       Policies, issues, audit, and readiness status   A production-readiness guarantee
 Docking       JSON/-   Settings, mapping, candidates, failures,        Author authentication or binding free energy
 Markdown               hashes, and selection
 Action script JSON     Public actions and bindings                     Arbitrary code, direct coordinates, or complete view
                                                                        state
 PNG or share URL       A visual snapshot or current/registered URL     A reusable molecule or serialized live session


Agent skill contract: export_and_handoff

 Contract element        Requirement
 Goal                   Preserve the smallest complete set of molecular, procedural, numerical, and decision records
                        needed by the next scientist or agent.
 Preconditions          The authoritative result and its intended downstream use are identiﬁed; unsaved state has not yet
                        been cleared or replaced.
 Inputs                 Recipient and purpose; required molecular format; action/replay needs; calculation, preparation,
                        docking, or campaign evidence to retain.
 Procedure              Inventory records; export reusable molecular state and method evidence; create an action script
                        when replay is required; commit decision history when project continuity is required; verify hashes
                        and replay; describe missing pieces explicitly.
 State mutation         Export is non-mutating. Script import is destructive to the unsaved scene and must follow export
                        of work that must be retained.
 Evidence               Exported ﬁles, schema and version identiﬁers, hashes where recorded, replay audit, and a
                        statement of assumptions and unresolved failures.
 Success                The recipient can identify the starting state, reproduce guarded actions where supported, inspect
                        the method and result, and distinguish accepted decisions from candidates.
 On failure             Stop on schema, action, binding, hash, or referenced-content mismatch. Do not describe a partial
                        replay as equivalent to a completed audit.
 Boundary               No complete project bundle or automatic capture of browser-native transport, calculation binaries,
                        or every transient view gesture. An action script is not a substitute for the authoritative snapshot.


await api.execute({action:"campaign.create", args:{
  campaignId:"sos1-local-design", title:"SOS1 local design",
  initialCommitMessage:"Register 5OVE/AXE starting state"}})
// chemist or agent performs guarded molecular actions
await api.execute({action:"campaign.commitCurrent", args:{
  message:"Accept Phe890-out design state", tags:["prospective"]}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.recordDecision", args:{
  disposition:"progressed",
  rationale:"No new clashes after pocket-state search"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.verify", args:{}})


B.11      How skill contracts, API actions, and Design History ﬁt together

                                                            14
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                      Wiewiora, Walters, and Sherman



Status. Current conceptual and executable relationship.
The question. How does a written agent contract become an authorized action and then a durable scientiﬁc decision?
The three layers serve diﬀerent purposes and should not be collapsed:
 1. The skill contract deﬁnes scientiﬁc intent. It states preconditions, permissible operations, required evidence,
    success, failure, and escalation. Here these names are proposed narrative operating contracts stored with the
    manuscript. They are not installed runtime skills, Chemist Actions, schemas, or executable enforcement.
 2. The Chemist Actions API deﬁnes executable authority. api.describe() lists installed action names and
    bounded arguments. Calls are validated, serialized through one queue, and audited with sequence, status, result
    or error, and duration. An agent cannot gain extra molecular authority by phrasing a request diﬀerently.
 3. Design History deﬁnes durable meaning over time. It commits complete molecular states and can link
    them to an explicitly partial public-action script, branches, decisions, evidence, actors, and append-only integrity
    records. The snapshot answers “what state was accepted?”; the action script answers “which guarded operations
    were captured and can be replayed?”; and the decision answers “why was it accepted?”
The practical agent pattern is:
const manifest = api.describe();          // discover installed authority
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect", args:{scope:"all"}})
await api.execute({action:"geometry.setInternalCoordinate", args:{
  atomIds:[a,b,c,d], value:172.0, moveConnected:true}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect", args:{scope:"all"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.commitCurrent",
  args:{message:"Accepted state after declared check"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.recordDecision",
  args:{disposition:"progressed", rationale:"..."}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.verify", args:{}})

The manifest is the executable authority: a narrative skill contract cannot add an action, relax argument validation,
or bypass a molecular precondition. Scientiﬁc review remains necessary even when an operation is exposed to both
interface and agent.
Handoﬀ rule. Export the structure when the recipient needs coordinates; export the calculation record when the
recipient must judge the method; export the Designer Moves script together with its required starting state when the
recipient must replay operations; and commit to Design History when the recipient must recover branches, decisions,
and accepted molecular states. Hashes detect alteration of the serialized record. They do not establish authorship,
chemical equivalence, or scientiﬁc validity.
The appendix in one sentence. For every task: make the molecular state explicit, choose a method whose scope
matches the question, inspect before applying a candidate, retain the evidence needed to reproduce the decision, and
stop when the declared scientiﬁc boundary is crossed.

Capabilities deliberately outside these workﬂows
The current workbench does not provide missing-loop construction, membrane or general metal preparation, covalent-
ligand parameterization, periodic explicit solvent, PME, production-scale trajectories, binding free energy, global
docking, general remote CUDA execution, GFN/xTB, general combinatorial enumeration, or automatic campaign
selection. Their absence is part of the operating contract rather than a prompt to approximate them silently.
This task-centered appendix intentionally omits maintainer ﬁle paths, source-line numbers, worker lifecycle details, JSON
nesting limits, deployment internals, and the complete repository test list. Those remain valuable implementation and audit
documentation, but they are not required for a scientist or agent to understand how to perform and judge the workﬂows above.




                                                            15
