Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                                Wiewiora and Sherman




       Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for
                     Molecular Design
    A perspective on user-directed adaptive software, persistent molecular state, and scientific
                                 reproducibility in drug discovery


                            Rafal P. Wiewiora                    Woody Sherman
                                   PsiThera                            PsiThera
                        rafal.wiewiora@psithera.com           woody.sherman@psithera.com

                                                September 3, 2026


                                                      Abstract

          Commercial drug discovery software has traditionally bundled three sources of value: the interface,
      the scientific models, and the specialized expertise required to run the models through the interface,
      thereby translating outputs into design decisions. Large language models, coding agents, and tool-using
      agents are beginning to unbundle this paradigm. Interfaces, analyses, workflow logic, and substantial
      portions of scientific software can increasingly be generated to meet the needs of a particular scientist,
      project, and question, while agents can automate sophisticated workflows that once required specialist
      users.
          This shift repositions where competitive advantage is created in computational drug discovery. More
      intuitive interfaces and faster execution alone do not fix model inaccuracies or broaden the applicability
      domain. As the underlying tooling becomes increasingly accessible and fluid, strategic differentiation will
      shift away from familiarity with a particular software package and toward superior preditive algorithms,
      more generalizable models, proprietary experimental data, accumulated discovery intelligence, and the
      human discernment needed to frame the right questions and evaluate the answers.
          Molarium, available at https://molarium.org, provides a case study of this transition in the context
      of molecular design software. Created during an intensive weekend effort of a tireless drug-discovery
      scientist and an AI coding agent, this open-source molecular workbench operates exclusively in a standard
      web browser. It integrates local molecular graphics, editing, conformer generation, energy minimization,
      molecular dynamics, machine-learned potentials, and protein-structure prediction workflows. Beneath
      its rapidly adaptable interface, Molarium maintains a versioned molecular state together with user
      actions, method specifications, provenance, and validation evidence. Decoupling an adaptable interface
      from an enduring scientific core points toward a broader architecture for generated adaptive software in
      drug discovery.

Keywords: agentic software development; computational chemistry; molecular design; WebGPU; scientific
validation; provenance; discovery intelligence


1    From fixed software products to generated adaptive software
In computational drug discovery, success depends on deploying the right methodology at the right time,
supported by appropriate parameters, explicit assumptions, and sound scientific context. Historically, this
work has been concentrated among computational specialists and has required substantial operational
overhead. Docking depends on protein preparation, protocol selection, constraints, and pose evaluation.
Molecular dynamics requires complex system setup, solvation, ion placement, force-field assignment,


                                                          1
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                        Wiewiora and Sherman



compute infrastructure, equilibration, production simulation, potential for enhanced sampling, trajectory
analysis, visualization, and interpretation in the context of project-specific decisions. Free-energy calcula-
tions add further complexities to molecular simulations with alchemical perturbations, sampling windows,
convergence assessment, error analysis, and alignment with experimental conditions. Comparable layers of
infrastructure and expertise surround cheminformatics, quantum chemistry, ADME property prediction,
generative molecular design, and protein structure prediction.
Historically, commercial drug discovery software has created considerable value by simplifying and in-
tegrating many of these activities. Graphical interfaces reduced technical barriers, workflow engines
connected fragmented programs, and software packages encoded operational details needed to apply
methods consistently. A single static inferface (perhaps updated quarterly) coupled scientific questions to
a fixed software environments. User-specific requests competed with broader corporate product roadmaps
that attempted to balance the needs of a diverse user base. Implementing new methods from the literature
or integrating open-source software often required software engineering support, if it was even possible.
Scientific users adapted their questions to the capabilities and conventions of the available tools within
their preferred/available graphical interface rather than adapting the software to their needs.
Large language models and coding agents are beginning to change this relationship. A scientist with
deep drug-discovery expertise but limited software programming experience can increasingly describe an
application, analysis, visualization, or workflow in natural language and have software constructed around
the scientific need. Tool-using agents can operate established methods, build complex workflows, implement
methods from the literature, handle failures, assemble results into insights that support decisions, and
even optimize processes based on iterative feedback. Earlier systems such as ChemCrow and ChemGraph
established proof-of-concept for language models coordinating chemistry tools and computational workflows
[1–4]. While their practical scope was limited compared with current coding agents, they helped establish
the feasibility of coupling language models to executable scientific tools.
The consequence is a shift in how drug hunters can interact with software. Scientists can increasingly
customize software around project-specific questions, available data, and their preferred way of reasoning
about a problem. A medicinal chemist optimizing a macrocycle may need a different interface and set
of calculations than a structural biologist testing a mechanistic hypothesis or a program team deciding
which compounds to advance from a virtual screening campaign. In this model, the interface becomes an
adaptive and potentially transient view over a more durable scientific substrate. Changes to the interface
do not imply changes to the underlying record of the work: molecular states, computational methods,
parameters, intermediate results, user actions, and software versions should persist and link through an
auditable provenance history. This separation between a mutable graphical layer and a persistent scientific
state is important for reproducibility, inspection, and reconstruction of prior decisions. Although Molarium
presents as a relatively simple browser-based application, it is built on a substantially richer underlying
architecture for managing versioned molecular state, tracking computational provenance, and executing
adapted implementations of established molecular modeling algorithms efficiently within the constraints of
a local web browser.
Molarium’s development directly reflects this paradigm. It began as a need for a better environment to
view and modify molecular structures, then evolved through active scientific use, all over the course of
a weekend to create the first version. Scientific problems drove software changes: unrealistic geometries
led to refined protocols; unconverged energies prompted explicit numerical reference checks; ambiguities
about execution backends led to clearer identification of the active engine; and unvalidated methods
became explicit boundaries rather than implicit assumptions. The software evolved with the scientific
questions it was built to address. Appendix A describes the execution architecture, numerical validation,
and an executable example of this design history. Appendix B provides a module-by-module reference
distinguishing current, experimental, repository-only, proposed, and retired functionality.




                                                        2
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                             Wiewiora and Sherman



2    Molarium and the value of a persistent molecular state
Molarium is a local-first molecular viewer, builder, and simulation workbench released under the Apache
License 2.0. Calculations execute on the user’s local device using WebAssembly or WebGPU, allowing
molecular graphics, editing, cheminformatics, conformer exploration, molecular mechanics, molecular
dynamics, machine-learned potentials, and selected protein-structure prediction workflows to coexist in a
standard browser environment. The browser reduces installation and orchestration overhead and avoids
remote job submission, cloud-compute charges, and application licensing while keeping computation inside
the interactive design loop. WebAssembly provides a route for mature compiled scientific libraries to run
locally, while WebGPU exposes modern accelerators through a portable browser API [5, 6].




Figure 1: Molarium in its normal View workspace after browser-local Sage/CCD preparation of the experimental
fragment F1-bound KRAS–SOS1 complex (PDB 6EPM). The official RCSB Chemical Component Dictionary
topology supplies the BQ5/F1 bond orders and the chemically correct 2D depiction shown at lower left. The complete
deposited protein assembly is shown as cartoons, while BQ5/F1 and protein residues within 5 Å are rendered
atomically to localize the allosteric design pocket. Solvent, cofactors, and hydrogens are hidden for clarity. This
scene provides structural context; the prospective hit-to-BAY-293 trajectory in Fig. 2 began independently from the
5OVE/AXE structure alone.

One of the advanced architectural capabilities is the preservation of a common scientific state. Molarium
maintains explicit topology, coordinates, protonation state, chemical edits, preparation history, trajectories,
model identity, and provenance as properties of the molecular session rather than allowing each view or
calculation to construct its own interpretation of the molecule. The interface can therefore change rapidly
without redefining the scientific object beneath it.
Three task-specific views illustrate this separation. “View” emphasizes the molecular system, including
molecular representations of protein, ligand, waters, ions, contacts, measurements, and selected residues.
“Design” exposes chemical and geometrical modifications. “Simulate” emphasizes preparation, simulation,
and analysis. The controls differ because the scientific questions differ; topology, coordinates, method
identity, and history remain attached to the same evolving molecular state. Detailed implementation and
replay examples are provided in Appendix A, while the state mutations, exports, and failure behaviour of

                                                        3
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                               Wiewiora and Sherman



the corresponding user-facing modules are specified in Appendix B.




Figure 2: Hit-only SOS1 design replayed in the Molarium interface through the public Chemist Actions API. (A)
The prepared 5OVE/AXE hit (teal) and its pale local pocket are centered before prospective design; 5OVE/AXE
was the sole coordinate-bearing input. The camera established here remains fixed. Between panels A and B, the
replay labels Phe890 and Lys898 while the first predicted pyrazole is inspected. (B) Sequential scaffold rewriting and
growth produces compound 21 (purple) in the Phe890-in pocket. The cyan halo identifies the edited ligand region;
gold identifies Phe890; magenta dotted connectors are severe ligand–protein short contacts recalculated from the live
coordinates. (C) A discrete side-chain search rotates Phe890 out of the growth path. Only the six moved Phe890
heavy atoms are haloed, so the conformational change can be compared directly with B without a camera refit.
(D) The final predicted BAY-293 complex is shown after coupled WebGPU relaxation with transient change marks
cleared. The replay ends at this prediction and never opens 5OVI. Independent post-freeze comparison with 5OVI
subsequently gave a receptor-aligned, graph-symmetry-minimized ligand RMSD of 1.215 Å and Phe890 χ1 values of
−172.43◦ in the prediction and −166.55◦ in the crystal; those validation coordinates did not seed the replay.

The executable replay is available at https://molarium.org/sos1-hit-to-bay293.
This separation becomes important when interfaces are inexpensive to modify. If every generated view can
redefine a molecule, select a different charge model, change protonation, alter preparation, or reinterpret
a trajectory, flexibility becomes a source of scientific ambiguity. Generated adaptive software therefore
requires a stronger boundary between presentation and scientific state than a conventional fixed interface
typically provides.
Molarium extends this principle by preserving the sequence of molecular states and user actions that
produced the current state. Edits, selections, manipulations, calculations, and other interactions form
an event history rather than leaving only the final coordinates. The resulting architecture is closer to
version control than to a traditional molecular project file. Each molecular state can be associated with
the actions that produced it, the calculation applied to it, and the evidence available at that point in the
design process.


                                                          4
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                          Wiewiora and Sherman



Thia concept is analogous to “Git for molecules”, although a drug design history is richer and more
complex than tracking revisions of source code. A design history includes structural changes together with
evolving hypotheses, model outputs, uncertainty, and experimental evidence. In a discovery setting, such a
record could capture which analogs were considered, which structures or properties influenced a design,
which alternatives were rejected, and what was learned when a compound was synthesized and tested.
This creates a foundation for recording medicinal chemistry design trajectories rather than storing only
the compounds that survived them. Much of the information that explains how a program learned lies
in alternatives that were considered and abandoned, yet conventional compound databases usually only
preserve experimental endpoints.




Figure 3: Molarium’s local-first architecture. Named computational engines act on an explicit molecular state
while provenance and validation evidence remain attached. The same principle provides a foundation for versioned
molecular histories in which scientific actions can be replayed and compared without allowing a new interface to
redefine the underlying state.

The browser also provides a useful trust boundary for proprietary work. Molarium’s “Local Lab” mode
can restrict network access and verify reviewed application assets while keeping supported calculations on
the local device. Because privacy controls depend on deployment configuration, this architecture makes
data movement explicit and auditable. Organizations can evaluate and enforce how molecular data are
handled rather than treating transfer to remote infrastructure as an invisible property of the software
stack. Appendix B specifies the connected and Local Lab network policies and makes clear that local
calculation and fully offline operation are distinct claims.


3    Scientific contracts: provenance, validation, and falsifiability
The emergence of rapidly adaptive software introduces a scientific vulnerability. Agentically generated
workflows become especially risky when ease-of-use obscures the underlying scientific methods. As the
time required to build a custom analysis view drops, that view still needs to expose the molecule, model,
parameters, assumptions, and evidence that produced the result. Reducing the friction of software
development without those safeguards increases the rate at which scientific ambiguity and errors can be
introduced.
We use the term “scientific contract” for the collection of invariants and evidence that gives a computational
output its meaning. A molecular-mechanics result cannot be defined by the generic label “molecular
mechanics.” Its identity depends on the molecular state, charge assignment, parameterization, energy
function, treatment of nonbonded interactions, boundary conditions, constraints, integrator, numerical
implementation, and precision. A learned potential depends on its architecture, weights, preprocessing,
supported chemistry, and training domain. A protein-structure prediction depends on checkpoint selection,
sequence and template information, inference protocol, and other model-specific choices. The surrounding
interface may adapt dynamically, but these scientific identities must remain explicit and protected from


                                                        5
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                               Wiewiora and Sherman



silent drift.
Molarium preserves distinctions among computational pathways even when they operate in the same
workspace. RDKit supports chemical perception and conformer generation; OpenFF Sage defines a
molecular-mechanics model; OpenMM Reference provides an independent numerical route for selected
validation tests; STORMM-inspired WebGPU code advances homogeneous replicas; ANI-2x provides a
machine-learned potential with a defined chemical domain; and OpenFold3 supports a separate protein-
structure prediction pathway [7–12]. These methods can be compared or chained without implying that
their energies, assumptions, or domains are interchangeable. Appendix A specifies the implemented
numerical pathways and their validation boundaries; Appendix B records how those pathways are exposed,
invoked, and constrained in the current workbench.
The same principle applies to workflow provenance. Reproducible computational science requires retention
of the data, computational process, execution environment, and provenance that produced a result [15, 17].
More recent work formalizes workflow invariants and testable reproducibility criteria rather than treating
provenance as passive metadata [16]. Generated adaptive software increases the importance of this
requirement because the workflow itself may be created or modified during the scientific interaction rather
than existing as a single release version defined in advance.
This leads to a stronger requirement: generation of a scientific workflow should be accompanied by
generation of the conditions under which its claims could be falsified. If an agent implements a conformer-
search strategy, the output should include the benchmark that tests whether conformational coverage
improves, the independent reference used for comparison, the quantitative tolerance that defines agreement,
the applicability limits of the test, and explicit failure conditions. If an agent adds a numerical kernel,
it should generate the corresponding independent comparison and acceptance criteria. These are better
understood as scientific contract tests than as ordinary software unit tests because they define what
scientific claim the implementation can support.




Figure 4: The scientist–agent build loop. Scientific needs and objections are translated into software changes, while
each new capability is paired with claim-defining tests, reference evidence, applicability limits, and provenance. The
ability to generate a workflow and the ability to specify how its claim could fail are treated as parts of the same
scientific result.

Molarium’s development repeatedly followed this pattern. A chemically implausible geometry exposed a
problem in representation and editing semantics and a questionable energy prompted comparison with
an independent implementation. Similarly, a discrepancy between CPU and GPU execution revealed
both a unit error and an incorrect assumption about which backend was running. Requesting constrained
dynamics led to implementation of SHAKE/RATTLE and comparison against a reference pathway [13, 14].
In each case, the useful scientific result consisted of the feature together with a test that established the
boundary of the claim.
Fluent agentic software makes this distinction more consequential, since problems are not always obvious
and do not necessarily result in errors. For example, a unit error can still produce a smooth trajectory and

                                                          6
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                              Wiewiora and Sherman



independent implementations can agree if they inherit the same flawed inputs. Successful execution and
an attractive visualization therefore occupy the bottom of an evidence hierarchy rather than establishing
that a molecular prediction is correct.




Figure 5: An evidence ladder for generated scientific software. Successful execution establishes less than numerical
agreement; numerical agreement establishes less than retrospective predictive performance; retrospective performance
establishes less than prospective transfer; and prospective accuracy is distinct from measurable improvement in
drug-discovery decisions.

When software construction is difficult, the labor of building a computational method can obscure the
separate obligation to validate it. As implementation becomes easier, the scientific responsibility becomes
harder to ignore. The workflow, its provenance, and the conditions that could falsify its claims should
therefore be treated as a single scientific object.

4    Local computation changes the interaction model
A web browser cannot always replace production molecular simulation software or high-performance
computing. Large periodic systems, long trajectories, and large-scale screening studies can require
substantially more compute resouirces than a personal machine can provide. Molarium currently addresses
calculations that are sufficiently bounded to remain inside the scientist’s interactive design session, although
remote job submission to a HPC cluster or the cloud for specific calculations would be trival to add.
The practical benefit of local compute is the reduced decision latency. Consider a medicinal chemist
examining a bound ligand and asking whether a proposed three-dimensional edit creates an avoidable
steric problem or opens a plausible alternative conformation of the protien binding pocket. In a fragmented
workflow, the scientist may export coordinates, request or run a separate calculation, move results back
into a viewer, and reconstruct the context in which the question arose. In Molarium the editing, relaxation,
conformational exploration, and trajectory inspection all run locally within the same session, tracking the
molecular state, the calculation, associated parameters, the design question, and decisions.
Local execution also changes economics for these interactive calculations. The marginal cost of many
small calculations approaches the cost of hardware already on the user’s desk, without requiring a remote
orchestration cycle or a separate software license for each supported operation. This advantage is most
relevant in the rapid design loop, where a calculation may be useful because it answers a focused question
in minutes rather than because it achieves the maximum possible throughput on a benchmark.
The lower operational barrier increases the importance of defining the project questions appropriately and
choosing calculations deliberately. A medicinal chemist deciding between two substituent orientations may
gain value from a constrained local refinement that changes which analog is synthesized next while running
hundreds of additional simulations after the decision is already insensitive to the result adds computational
activity without increasing scientific leverage. The operational efficiency helps the scientist focus on the

                                                         7
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                          Wiewiora and Sherman



right question, apply the appropriate method, and prioritize molecules that have a realistic chance to
advance the program.
Local execution also redistributes control. The scientist can determine which analysis should exist, how
data should be juxtaposed, and which calculation should be available at the point of decision. Molarium
illustrates this shift: a scientist did not need to wait for every useful workflow to appear on a conventional
product roadmap. Missing interfaces, algorithms, andmethods can be added while the underlying question
was still active.


5    What becomes scarce when the tool layer becomes cheap
A concrete medicinal-chemistry example helps separate the layers of value. Suppose a project team
is considering a substitution intended to improve a ligand’s interaction with a newly identified pocket
while preserving permeability. The tool layer provides the editor, visualization, coordinate handling,
workflow logic, and connection to the relevant calculations. The model layer determines whether the
predicted pose, conformational preference, interaction energy, or permeability estimate is credible. The
discovery-intelligence layer supplies the project-specific context: prior SAR, assay conditions, structural
interpretation, known liabilities, synthetic constraints, and the reason the team is considering that particular
design at that point in the program. Coding agents can make the first layer easier to construct. The value
of the second and third layers depends on scientific accuracy and accumulated knowledge rather than
interface complexity.
The tool layer includes graphical interfaces, visualization, format conversion, wrappers, workflow logic,
reports, job control, data plumbing, and bounded numerical implementation. These capabilities remain
important and require maintenance, but their marginal reproduction cost is falling quickly as coding agents
improve. A scientist can increasingly generate a project-specific view or connect an existing computational
method without waiting for the corresponding feature to appear in a commercial release.
The model layer includes force fields, quantum-mechanical methods, docking and scoring functions, free-
energy models, machine-learned potentials, protein-structure predictors, molecular representations, property
models, parameters, weights, uncertainty calibration, and the evidence that establishes their useful domain.
Easier invocation does not improve predictive quality. A docking model with an inadequate scoring function
remains inadequate when an agent invokes it. A systematic force-field error can become more damaging
when automated workflows propagate it across thousands of calculations. A machine-learned property
model does not gain extrapolative validity because a language model describes its output fluently, and a
protein-structure predictor does not become reliable for a particular conformational state because it is
available through a better interface.
Differences among models therefore become more consequential as the mechanics of invoking them become
less scarce. Drug discovery frequently requires extrapolation into new chemistry, structural states, and
biological contexts rather than interpolation within a well-sampled training distribution [18–20]. Faster
access can accelerate good models and weak models alike.
The discovery-intelligence layer includes proprietary experimental data, negative results, project history,
assay context, structural interpretation, design rationale, internal protocols, expert judgment, and program
objectives. Molarium intentionally contains little of this layer because it is a public workbench built
primarily from public scientific components. The same architecture could be connected to internal
structures, assay data, pharmacokinetics, target biology, medicinal-chemistry reasoning, and program
objectives. That project-specific context can determine which computation is relevant and how much
weight its output should receive.
Versioned molecular history provides a bridge into discovery intelligence. Traditional compound databases
record what was made and measured well, but they rarely preserve what was considered, why one design
was preferred, which model or structure influenced the decision, or what evidence was visible at the time.

                                                        8
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                             Wiewiora and Sherman




Figure 6: Three interdependent layers of value in generated adaptive molecular design. Implementation and
orchestration are becoming increasingly reproducible by coding agents. Scientific models remain differentiated by
accuracy, representation, domain coverage, calibration, and validation. Proprietary discovery intelligence combines
experimental data with the context and decision history that make those data useful.


A persistent action history can capture that decision trajectory.
For example, a chemist might propose adding a substituent after inspecting a pocket in a protein–ligand
structure. The project record could retain the parent structure, the molecular edit, the structural hypothesis,
the conformational or energetic calculations viewed before synthesis, competing designs that were rejected,
and the subsequent experimental measurements. If the design later fails because an assumed interaction
was absent or a liability dominated the profile, that information remains associated with the decision
that created the molecule. Future scientists and agents can then ask which assumptions repeatedly led to
productive designs and which repeatedly failed. This is decision provenance: preserving the relationship
among hypotheses, interventions, predictions, decisions, and outcomes rather than storing only final
compounds and assay values.
Agentic systems provide a mechanism to operationalize some of this accumulated knowledge through
scientific skills. Here, a skill means a version-controlled, machine-executable procedure that combines a
defined tool or model with an organization’s accepted inputs, assumptions, validation criteria, applicability
limits, failure handling, and escalation rules. A protein-preparation skill might encode how crystallographic
waters, protonation states, alternate conformations, unusual residues, and ambiguous cases are handled. A
free-energy skill might define accepted perturbations, convergence criteria, diagnostics, and failure modes.
The durable asset is the scientific procedure and its validation, rather than the natural-language prompt
used to invoke it.


6    The changing role of scientific expertise
As software becomes easier to construct and operate, scientific judgment becomes more valuable. Traditional
computational expertise includes substantial operational knowledge: preparing inputs, locating settings,
translating files between programs, recovering failed jobs, and reproducing standard analyses. An increasing
fraction of this work can be encoded in software and agents. The broader automation literature has long
recognized that reducing routine operation can increase the importance of human expertise when systems
encounter ambiguous or abnormal conditions [21].
The highest-value expertise shifts toward selecting the right question, choosing an appropriate level of
model fidelity, defining acceptable tradeoffs between cost and accuracy, recognizing implausible results,
selecting meaningful controls, and determining which evidence would change a project decision. Scientists
closest to the underlying discovery problem—whether medicinal chemists, structural biologists, mechanistic
biologists, pharmacologists, or computational scientists—can increasingly interact directly with relevant
data and calculations rather than routing every question through a software intermediary.


                                                        9
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                         Wiewiora and Sherman



This shift changes the leverage of computational specialists. Less specialist time needs to be spent
constructing repetitive interfaces, transferring files, or manually operating routine workflows. More can be
spent on model development, molecular physics, parameterization, sampling, uncertainty, validation, and
difficult edge cases where established workflows fail. Once that expertise is made explicit, part of it can be
encoded into validated scientific skills that broaden access without implying that the underlying science
has become simple.
Molarium’s development illustrates this division of labor. The coding agent could inspect a repository,
refactor software, implement numerical kernels, add tests, and repeat the loop rapidly. The scientist had to
recognize chemically implausible results, decide whether a reference was genuinely independent, determine
whether a discrepancy mattered, choose acceptable approximations, and identify what evidence would
change a decision. The agent compressed the distance between recognizing a scientific need and changing
the software; scientific judgment determined which changes mattered.
The bottleneck therefore moves toward epistemology: deciding which approximation is acceptable, whether
a faster method sacrifices information that matters to the decision, when an independent control is required,
whether a reference is truly independent, whether a model is operating outside its validated domain, what
uncertainty must remain visible, and which experiment would discriminate between competing hypotheses.
Faster implementation increases the value of asking the right question.


7    Limitations and outlook
Molarium is a case study rather than a controlled experiment in software productivity or drug-discovery
performance. Its development involved a small number of scientists, one evolving codebase, and a particular
coding-agent workflow. The project did not include a randomized comparison with a conventional software-
development team, and it cannot establish a universal productivity multiplier or determine what fraction
of commercial scientific software can be regenerated reliably.
The open-source repository can nevertheless support a useful community experiment. Contributors can
identify computational capabilities described in papers or public specifications, attempt independent
agent-assisted reconstructions, test them against appropriate references, and record which parts can and
cannot be reproduced reliably. Over time, this could become a living benchmark for the regeneration
of molecular-modeling software, with success defined by scientific contract tests rather than by code
generation alone.
Molarium’s scientific scope is deliberately bounded. Current browser-native molecular mechanics does
not reproduce the full capability of mature native simulation environments. General periodic simulation,
particle-mesh Ewald electrostatics, barostats, membranes, unrestricted protein parameterization, arbitrary
plugins, and other advanced capabilities remain outside the current browser-native scope. ANI-2x remains
valid only within its declared chemical domain, and browser-based OpenFold support is narrower than
general production protein-structure prediction workflows. Generated wrappers and easier access must
preserve, expose, and enforce these applicability limits rather than implying broader scientific validity.
Appendix A catalogues the demonstrated implementation and numerical boundaries, and Appendix B
provides the corresponding operational status, failure modes, and end-user limits.
A second limitation concerns the distinction between implementation fidelity and predictive validity. If a
browser implementation reproduces an OpenMM reference energy and force to a specified tolerance, that
result establishes that the implementation is executing the declared calculation correctly for the tested
case. It does not establish that the shared force field predicts the experimental behavior of a new molecule.
Likewise, a conformer workflow can reproduce its intended algorithm and explore more structures without
improving recovery of biologically relevant conformations. Implementation validation and model validation
answer different questions and require different evidence.
The future suggested by Molarium is one in which the interface between scientist and computation becomes

                                                        10
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                        Wiewiora and Sherman



more fluid while the scientific state, models, assumptions, evidence, and decision history become more
explicit. Project teams can construct temporary views around specific questions; internal models can
coexist with open-source methods and commercial services; and the user experience no longer needs to be
owned by the provider of each underlying calculation.
The durable infrastructure in such an environment is concrete. A user should be able to inspect the
active molecular state and its history, the exact model and parameter versions used for each calculation,
declared applicability limits, validation status, assumptions, provenance, and links between predictions
and subsequent decisions. These quantities should remain available regardless of which generated view
is open. An adaptive interface can change rapidly because the scientific contract underneath it remains
stable and inspectable.


8    Conclusion
Molarium began as a request for a better environment in which to inspect and manipulate molecules.
It developed rapidly into a local-first molecular-design workbench incorporating topology-aware editing,
protein preparation, conformer exploration, molecular mechanics, molecular dynamics, learned potentials,
protein-structure prediction, browser-native GPU computation, provenance, and reference validation. The
speed of that development is technically interesting, but the broader lesson concerns the architecture of
scientific software and the location of durable value.
Software can increasingly be generated around the scientific question and the user’s specific preferences.
The quality of the underlying models, validation, and decision history becomes more consequential as the
interface becomes cheaper and more fluid. The scarce assets shift toward trustworthy models, proprietary
discovery intelligence, and the human judgment required to know what to ask and what to believe.
Molarium also suggests that molecular-design environments should preserve more than the latest structure.
A versioned record of molecular states, user actions, calculations, assumptions, and results can capture the
trajectory by which scientific decisions were made. Coupled to explicit scientific contracts and falsification
tests, that history can make generated adaptive software more reproducible, extensible, and scientifically
accountable.
When software is difficult to construct, implementation effort can hide the distinction between building a
method and validating it. When implementation becomes easy, the remaining scientific obligations become
harder to ignore. The opportunity is to place adaptable computational capability directly in the hands of
scientists who understand the problem while preserving the models, evidence, and decision history that
determine whether the answer should be trusted.
The tool layer is becoming cheap and adaptive. Scientific advantage moves toward better models, better
discovery intelligence, and better decisions.


AI assistance and availability
GPT-5.6 Sol was used extensively as a coding agent during the development of Molarium under human
scientific direction, inspection, testing, and revision. Language-model assistance was also used in restruc-
turing and drafting this manuscript. The authors remain responsible for the scientific claims, validation,
source attribution, and final text.
Molarium is available at https://molarium.org. Its source code and technical documentation are publicly
available under the Apache License 2.0 at https://github.com/rafwiewiora/molarium. Bundled third-
party software, model parameters, force fields, and scientific data retain their separately identified terms.
Quantitative benchmark results are scoped by the relevant implementation state, fixtures, model and
asset hashes, browser and hardware environment, numerical precision, and timing protocol. Appendix A


                                                        11
Molarium: Agent-Generated Adaptive Software for Molecular Design                    Wiewiora and Sherman



provides the architecture, numerical validation, and executable design-history evidence underlying these
results; Appendix B records the inspected operating surface, module boundaries, failure behaviour, and
export/persistence contracts.




                                                        12
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                          Wiewiora and Sherman



                                              APPENDIX A
         Molarium architecture, numerical validation, and
                   executable design history

This appendix specifies the implementation and validation substrate underlying the architectural claims in the
main text. It defines the molecular-state contract shared across chemistry perception, parameterization, numerical
execution, visualization, and provenance; describes the OpenMM/WebAssembly and WebGPU execution paths;
reports fixed-input numerical validation and workload-dependent performance measurements; and documents the
content-addressed replay and decision-history mechanisms used by Molarium. The final section provides an executable
SOS1 design-history example. Numerical agreement is treated as implementation validation of a declared calculation
and is kept distinct from validation of the underlying physical or statistical model.


A.1     Execution architecture
Molarium maintains a single molecular state keyed by stable atom identifiers across ingestion, chemical perception,
parameterization, calculation, visualization, and replay. RDKit provides graph interpretation, conformer generation,
SMARTS matching, and ligand-level preparation. A JavaScript SMIRNOFF parameterizer applies OpenFF Sage
2.1.0 to generate an explicit numerical recipe containing particle properties, bonded terms, nonbonded terms,
exceptions, and constraints. Preparation fails on missing required parameters rather than substituting inferred terms.
The accepted recipe is consumed by the OpenMM/WebAssembly reference path and the direct or replica-parallel
WebGPU paths, allowing backend comparisons on identical topology, coordinates, parameters, and atom ordering.
The primary data path is:

                                         PDB or SMILES input
                                                     ↓
                        molecular graph, stable atom identities, and coordinates
                                                     ↓
                        RDKit interpretation → OpenFF Sage numerical recipe
                                                     ↓
                OpenMM/WebAssembly reference | direct WebGPU | replica-parallel WebGPU
                                                     ↓
                       viewer, action audit, calculation record, and design history

The same molecular object remains authoritative as calculations return coordinates, forces, energies, or trajectories.
Table 1 summarizes the current implementation.
Internal units are nm, ps, daltons, kJ/mol, and kJ/mol/nm; the interface presents angstroms and kcal/mol where
appropriate. Numerical engines execute in reusable Web Workers so rendering and user interaction remain responsive.
Requests carry job identifiers, and failed workers are discarded and recreated. Results return as compact coordinate,
force, energy, or trajectory arrays mapped to the originating atom identities.
For ordinary small molecules, the browser parameterizer applies Sage 2.1.0 patterns and labelled Gasteiger charges
[8, 26]. Prepared Rosemary validation fixtures retain their exported numerical recipes and NAGL charges. CPU/GPU
comparisons therefore operate on the same prepared graph and numerical inputs rather than independently parame-
terized systems.


A.1.1    OpenMM WebAssembly reference

OpenMM 8.2.0 is cross-compiled with Emscripten 6.0.6-git and CMake 3.31.0 [9, 27]. A thin C interface constructs
an OpenMM System from the serialized numerical recipe and returns energies, forces, minimized coordinates, or
short trajectories. Source, patches, interface code, and built assets carry recorded fingerprints so the deployed
reference path can be associated with a specific implementation state.



                                                         13
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                        Wiewiora and Sherman



                                   Table 1: Current browser implementation.

Task                     Software used                  Implementation role
Molecular interpreta-    RDKit 2025.03.4,        We-    SMILES/graph handling, ETKDGv3, SMARTS matching,
tion                     bAssembly                      MMFF94, explicit UFF fallback, and Gasteiger charges
Force-field assignment   OpenFF Sage 2.1.0              Generates particles, bonds, angles, torsions, nonbonded
                                                        terms, exceptions, and constraints
Numerical reference      OpenMM 8.2.0 Reference,        Double-precision energies and forces, L-BFGS minimization,
                         WebAssembly                    and short dynamics used for fixed-input reference compar-
                                                        isons
Direct local mechanics   WebGPU/WGSL, 32-bit            Single-system force/energy evaluation, OBC2/ACE, mini-
                         floating point                 mization, and short dynamics
Replica-parallel   me-   STORMM-inspired We-            Advances independent replicas sharing one topology and
chanics                  bGPU engine                    parameter layout; paired-word fixed-point accumulation;
                                                        current limit 512 atoms per replica
State and provenance     JavaScript modules, back-      Preserves atom identity and records action, calculation,
                         ground workers, Canvas,        replay, and SHA-256-linked provenance
                         Web Crypto


The reference configuration is nonperiodic and uses the double-precision OpenMM Reference platform. Supported
operations include energy and force evaluation, L-BFGS minimization, short dynamics, optional X–H constraints, 2
fs Langevin-middle integration, a cutoff configuration used for validation, and OBC2/ACE with mbondi2 radii [28].
The WebAssembly build exposed a threading-specific setup failure for constrained dynamics: native OpenMM creates
helper CPU threads during constraint initialization, whereas the browser build is single-threaded. A serial patch
removes the wait path for this build without modifying native OpenMM.
Fixed-input parity was evaluated in two stages. The same C interface compiled natively and for WebAssembly
agreed to a maximum energy difference of 2.84 × 10−14 kcal/mol and relative force RMS of 3.76 × 10−15 . Five
hash-selected protein–ligand poses were then prepared through browser Sage and evaluated with matched numerical
inputs. Maximum energy differences were 1.24 × 10−4 kcal/mol in vacuum and 2.76 × 10−4 kcal/mol with OBC2;
maximum relative force RMS error was 1.16 × 10−5 in both modes. These tests establish implementation parity for
the specified fixtures and protocols.


A.1.2    Direct WebGPU mechanics

The direct WebGPU path evaluates the prepared force-field equations in WGSL using 32-bit floating-point arithmetic.
Force ownership is atomwise: one invocation owns the output force for one atom, and compact incidence lists identify
the bonded terms that contribute to that atom. Pair and valence terms are recomputed where required so each
invocation writes its force once, avoiding floating-point atomic updates, which WGSL does not provide [22].
The deployed nonbonded representation stores excluded and specially scaled pairs explicitly and mixes ordinary
Lennard–Jones parameters on demand. An earlier all-pairs metadata representation required 32N 2 bytes and imposed
a practical allocation ceiling; the sparse exception representation removes that quadratic metadata cost. OBC2/ACE
is evaluated in three kernel passes for Born radii, coordinate derivatives, and solvent/nonpolar energy and force
accumulation. Optional X–H constraints are graph-coloured so non-overlapping SHAKE/RATTLE corrections can
execute concurrently [13, 14]. Seeded Langevin dynamics supports 1 fs flexible and 2 fs constrained integration.
Pocket relaxation uses a bounded steepest-descent procedure with zero inverse mass on fixed receptor atoms; only
the ligand and explicitly selected pocket atoms move. Current operating limits are listed in Table 2.
At the interactive system sizes tested here, a conventional Verlet neighbour list did not improve performance. With
a 0.2 nm skin rebuilt every 20 steps, 5,000 constrained OBC2 Trp-cage steps were 46% slower and 1,000 ubiquitin
steps were 17% slower than full-range nonbonded evaluation on an Apple M1 Pro. The cutoff route is therefore
retained for validation but is not exposed in the product controls.
GPU benefit depends on amortizing dispatch and data movement. A single Trp-cage energy/force evaluation required
25.5 ms in WebGPU and 5.7 ms in OpenMM Reference. Across 1,000 dynamics steps, WebGPU reached 214.9 versus


                                                        14
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                         Wiewiora and Sherman



                        Table 2: Operating limits in the current direct WebGPU worker.

  Setting                                  Current value
  Principal force workgroup                64 atomwise calculations
  Time step                                1 fs flexible; 2 fs with X–H constraints
  Constraint solve                         Four graph-coloured sweeps by default; at most 32
  Minimization                             750 iterations by default; at most 2,000; each displacement capped at
                                           0.001 nm
  Direct dynamics request                  At most 5,000 steps; longer requests use the ensemble route
  Validation cutoff                        1.0 nm cutoff; 0.2 nm skin; rebuild every 20 steps


102.8 ns/day for 304-atom Trp-cage and 65.18 versus 7.11 ns/day for 1,231-atom ubiquitin. These measurements
use warmed, nonperiodic, all-pairs workloads. The direct path does not currently implement periodic boundaries,
particle-mesh Ewald electrostatics, explicit solvent, barostats, virtual sites, or arbitrary OpenMM custom forces.


A.1.3    Replica-parallel WebGPU

The replica engine targets throughput across independent copies of a shared topology. One replica maps to one
GPU workgroup, in contrast to the atomwise decomposition used by the direct engine. The memory layout and
fixed-point accumulation strategy draw on STORMM’s stacked-system design, while the browser implementation is
independent WGSL code [10]. Replicas share topology and parameters but do not interact.
Concurrent accumulation uses paired 32-bit words to represent signed 64-bit fixed-point values because WGSL
exposes 32-bit integer atomics. The implementation uses 222 counts per kcal/mol for energies, 218 counts per
kcal/mol/Å for forces, and 232 counts per Å for coordinates. This replaced 32-bit accumulators that overflowed
silently in highly clashed configurations and produced bit-for-bit replay for identical seeds on the tested adapter.
Integration uses velocity Verlet, seeded Langevin thermalization, and SHAKE/RATTLE. Constraint projection
is serial within a replica while replicas execute in parallel; the default relative tolerance is 10−5 with at most 32
iterations. Commands contain at most 50 steps. Persistent status words convert non-finite values, accumulator
overflow, coordinate clamps, and failed constraints into terminal errors. Current limits are 512 atoms per replica,
all-pairs nonbonded evaluation, and identical atom count, topology, and parameters across replicas.
Force evaluation uses a separate 32-bit floating-point coordinate working copy. Translating a test system 500 Å from
the origin changed energies by approximately 3 × 10−4 relative, identifying the working coordinate representation
rather than the fixed-point store as the remaining translation-sensitivity boundary. Eliminating this source of error
requires recentering before force evaluation or a wider working representation.
Replica throughput also crosses over with workload size. In warm tests, OpenMM Reference was 13.3-fold faster for
one C16 molecule and 3.5-fold faster for one 27-water system. WebGPU was 10.3-fold faster for 1,024 C16 replicas
and 24.1-fold faster for 256 water replicas. These measurements compare aggregate replica throughput; the two
engines do not use identical integrators.


A.2     Reference-driven implementation and validation
The numerical implementation is developed against a shared executable specification. OpenMM and the browser
kernels receive the same molecular graph, atom ordering, coordinates, parameters, units, exceptions, constraints,
and named energy terms. This enables term-resolved differential testing rather than comparison of independently
prepared end states. The implementation loop is:
1. freeze the molecular graph, atom ordering, coordinates, force-field parameters, and units used by the reference
   calculation;
2. implement one energy/force term and its memory representation at a time;
3. evaluate the identical numerical input with OpenMM;
4. compare named energy components and Cartesian force components;
5. localize the first discrepancy, correct it, and retain the minimal reproducing case as a regression test; and



                                                         15
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                          Wiewiora and Sherman



6. execute the resulting WebGPU and WebAssembly paths in the browser to include worker, adapter, serialization,
   and UI integration boundaries.
Coding agents operate inside this harness by modifying implementation code, tests, and adapters. The physical-
model equivalence criteria—including atom order, solvent model, cutoffs, constraints, units, charge provenance,
and acceptable numerical tolerances—are specified explicitly and remain prerequisites for interpreting any backend
comparison.
Several observed failures led directly to architectural changes (Table 3).

                          Table 3: Observed failures that changed the implementation.

Observation                      Design change                                Retained check
Pair metadata grew as 32N   2
                                 Store only exceptional pairs; mix ordinary   Large-system allocation and parity
                                 pairs on demand                              tests
32-bit force/energy sums over-   Paired-word 64-bit fixed-point accumula-     Clashed system at approximately 2 mil-
flowed                           tion and fault flags                         lion kcal/mol
Coordinates wrapped beyond       64-bit fixed-point coordinate store plus     Whole-system translation to 500 Å
128 Å                            floating-point working copy
Standard cutoff reduced per-     Retain for validation; omit from product     Fixed Trp-cage/ubiquitin timing proto-
formance                         controls                                     cols
Apparent engine mismatch         Verify atom order, input hashes, and sol-    Native/WebAssembly parity and
                                 vent mode before numerical debugging         matched-solvent comparisons

Regression coverage is organized around the interfaces where failures were observed: equation-level fixtures for
bonded and nonbonded terms; representation tests for clashes, constraints, overflow, and translated coordinates;
backend comparisons on identical prepared inputs; protein fixtures that exercise special pairs and worker transfer;
browser tests for adapter support and worker recovery; and fixed performance protocols that retain slower but
numerically valid designs. Fixed random seeds and stable atom identifiers make failing cases repeatable. The replica
engine terminates on fixed-point overflow or unconverged constraints; the direct engine records final constraint error
for comparison against an acceptance threshold.
The demonstrated portability boundary is fixed-topology, nonperiodic molecular mechanics with regular array
state and a small number of synchronization points. WebGPU is effective when work decomposes into local
or pairwise operations and repeated evaluations amortize dispatch. Algorithms requiring 64-bit floating-point
arithmetic, frequent device-wide synchronization, rapidly changing graphs, large adaptive sparse structures, or
mature FFT/sparse-linear-algebra libraries require a different decomposition under current WGSL [22]. Particle-mesh
Ewald electrostatics, heterogeneous reactive systems, and some long-timescale production protocols are therefore
outside the demonstrated browser-native boundary. For those workloads, the architecture supports escalation to a
WebAssembly reference, hybrid local path, or external specialist engine while preserving the originating molecular
state and protocol provenance.


A.3     Workflow orchestration and local execution boundary
Molarium distinguishes local calculation from offline operation. In normal connected mode, supported numerical
calculations execute on the user’s device, while explicit PDB/CCD retrieval or sequence-alignment searches contact
the services identified in the interface. Local Lab serves a reviewed, versioned checkout from localhost under a
restrictive Content Security Policy. External structure and alignment controls are disabled, and an egress-canary
test fails if a synthetic private-data marker reaches an external request. A hosted application can change the assets
served on a subsequent visit; the stronger reproducibility and privacy boundary is a reviewed checkout with locally
pinned assets.
Current workflow surfaces include:
• Local small-molecule design. Synchronized 2D/3D construction, graph validation, RDKit or direct-WebGPU
  calculations, aligned trajectory/energy inspection, and export. OpenMM/WebAssembly is used for internal
  validation and fixed-scaffold operations rather than as a selectable Run-panel method.
• Protein–ligand pose propagation. A trusted pose is captured with stable atom lineage; changed ligand


                                                         16
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                            Wiewiora and Sherman



  branches are sampled while the receptor remains fixed; optional contact hypotheses constrain search; and a
  selected pose can be applied and relaxed. An experimental induced-fit action releases the ligand and all atoms of
  protein residues within a 6 Å pocket shell while outer atoms remain fixed.
• Agent-operated design. Agents invoke the versioned Chemist Actions API rather than arbitrary page functions.
  The API exposes the same bounded state-changing verbs available to a chemist—including select, edit, search,
  apply, relax, and undo—plus read-only inspection. Requests execute serially and record sequence, timestamps,
  arguments, status, and duration.
Two extension paths are represented in the architecture but are not complete product workflows. A local-to-specialist
path can export a fingerprinted checkpoint and explicit protocol for periodic solvent, long trajectories, free energy, or
electronic-structure calculations, with returned results attached as evidence to the originating branch; transport,
scheduling, signatures, and trust policy are not implemented. A collaborative review model can branch by chemotype,
protonation state, pose, or author and record a selected branch with explicit parentage; coordinate averaging is not
used as a merge operation.


A.4     Content-addressed molecular and decision provenance
Molarium separates operational, numerical, and decision provenance. A molecular snapshot records one explicit state.
Content-addressed commits link that state to parent states, action scripts, hypotheses, and evidence. Branches
preserve alternative design routes, and decisions record which route progressed, stopped, or was deferred. These
semantics are implemented as a custom content-addressed ledger rather than a Git repository or a general structural
merge algorithm.
The current live application retains at most 500 action records in memory; clearing the scene clears that audit.
Durable provenance therefore requires explicit export of API moves or a replay log. The append-only design-campaign
ledger, commit, branch, decision, and verification functions exist in the repository and support standalone builders
and reviews, while one-click promotion of a live session into ledger commits is not currently exposed in the main
interface.

                     Table 4: Separation of operational, numerical, and decision provenance.

Record                         Question                            Contents
Chemist Actions audit          What was requested?                 Public action, arguments, timing, status, and com-
                                                                   pact after-state
Calculation record             What numerical protocol ran?        Inputs, method, parameters, outputs, and hash-
                                                                   linked events
Design campaign                Why did a state advance or          Snapshots, branches, parents, hypotheses, evidence,
                               stop?                               and decisions


Canonical JSON and SHA-256 fingerprints bind records to exact serialized representations. The molarium.design-campaign/v1
schema stores snapshots, commits, branches, events, and decisions. Each commit identifies its selected snapshot,
parent commit(s), optional action script, hypotheses, evidence, tags, and branch. Events are append-only and
contain the previous event fingerprint, actor class (human, agent, system, or import), and source. Supported decision
states are progressed, not-progressed, deferred, failed, duplicate, superseded, and archived. Finalization
appends a completion event and hashes the campaign; subsequent record changes fail verification. Hashes provide
alteration detection for the recorded representation, not authorship, chemical equivalence, or scientific validity.
Registered design routes use a separate molarium.registered-design-route/v1 schema that specifies the coordi-
nate boundary, hash-pinned starting state, and ordered graph edits. The SOS1, BCL-xL, and CDK2 routes use this
schema. Route actions are designRoute.load, designRoute.applyStep, and designRoute.inspect; campaign-
ledger operations remain separate. Cross-schema validation rejects a route presented as a campaign ledger or a
campaign ledger presented as a route. Frozen predictions made before the schema split retain their original input hash,
with migration records storing both hashes and accepting only the schema-identifier substitution that reconstructs
the frozen bytes.
A decision-to-state linkage has the following form; full identifiers are SHA-256-derived values rather than the
abbreviated labels shown here.


                                                          17
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                          Wiewiora and Sherman



{
    "moleculeCommit": {
      "snapshotId": "snapshot:<selected-child>",
      "parents": ["commit:<parent>"],
      "actionScriptId": "script:<designer-moves>",
      "hypothesisIds": ["event:<pocket-must-open>"]
    },
    "decisionEvent": {
      "kind": "decision.recorded",
      "actorId": "chemist.01",
      "payload": {
        "targetCommitId": "commit:<selected-child>",
        "disposition": "progressed",
        "reasonCodes": ["contact-loss"],
        "rationale": "Phe-out removes growth-induced clashes.",
        "evidenceIds": ["event:<rotamer-search>"]
      }
    }
}

Executable replays use molarium.chemist-action-script/v1. Scripts contain ordered calls to the allow-listed
Chemist Actions API rather than arbitrary code or direct coordinate replacement. Designer Moves JSON files must
be smaller than 2 MB; each serialized API request and its argument object are capped at 8 MiB for ASCII JSON,
eight nested levels, and 2,048 JSON nodes. Actions can name returned stable identifiers for reuse by later steps.
The runner executes one action at a time through api.execute({action,args}), derives a repeatable request ID
from the script fingerprint, and stops on the first failure. Replay results use molarium.chemist-action-replay/v1
and record the source fingerprint and each step outcome. Presentation actions can alter focus or styling but cannot
change molecular graph or coordinates except through the same allow-listed state-changing actions.
The SOS1 replay is identified by a stable public route and by exact release and content fingerprints. A human-readable
URL can resolve to a newer release, whereas the release commit, route-file fingerprint, and canonical action-script
fingerprint identify the reviewed bytes and normalized JSON content. The live workflow can capture a starting
state, record exploration actions, apply and relax selected states, and export action and numerical records. Formal
campaign commits and decision events are represented by the ledger layer described above.


A.5      SOS1 hit-to-BAY-293 executable replay
The SOS1 example follows the analogue series reported by Hillig and colleagues [30]. The supplied design information
consisted of the 5OVE/AXE coordinate-bearing starting complex and the published analogue graphs for AWT,
AWZ, AWW, and AXH. The later analogue poses and receptor conformations were withheld during prediction.
Each analogue was propagated from the preceding frozen prediction rather than from its corresponding later crystal
structure.
The selected route contains 33 recorded API actions: 29 molecular or protocol operations and four workspace
switches. The full exploration audit contains 89 completed API calls, including three Phe890/pose branches, nine
undo calls, and deterministic reselection. The rendered interface sequence adds 16 display-only actions for 49 replay
steps. Later crystal structures were opened only after four prediction checkpoints and the exploration audit had
been hashed. Display and focus actions are non-mutating.
The analogue transitions involve substantial graph rewrites while preserving explicit atom lineage (Table 5).

                     Table 5: Heavy-atom lineage across the supplied SOS1 analogue graphs.

                     Transition     Retained      Deleted     Added     Candidate mappings
                     AXE–AWT                 23          4          6                          4
                     AWT–AWZ                 19         10         12                          1
                     AWZ–AWW                 16         15         15                          1
                     AWW–AXH                 15         16         17                          1



                                                         18
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                            Wiewiora and Sherman



Each “64-chain” search comprises 64 independently seeded local pose searches. Parameterization without motion
assigns the numerical force-field representation while preserving coordinates; only the subsequent relaxation changes
coordinates. The SOS1 route uses whole-system Sage 2.1.0/Gasteiger preparation rather than the prepared Rosemary
validation fixtures. AWT, AWZ, AWW, and AXH contain 7,929, 7,933, 7,935, and 7,937 particles, respectively. This
charge assignment is part of the recorded protocol and is distinct from standard Sage workflows using AM1-BCC or
NAGL charges.
Before flexible relaxation, Molarium stores ligand bond lengths and rejects a relaxed pose if any heavy-atom bond is
both more than 0.45 Å longer and 1.25-fold its assigned target, or both more than 0.35 Å shorter and below 0.75-fold
its target. Rejected relaxation restores the previous pose rather than accepting an improved score with a broken
molecular geometry.

Table 6: Sequence of molecular states in the SOS1 replay. Predictions, rather than future crystal structures, seed
the next step.

Step       Operation                        State/evidence
0          Load and prepare                 5OVE/AXE only; capture the compound 1 reference and coordinate
                                            boundary
1          Rewrite to compound 17           Run 64 independent reference-guided pose searches; apply selected pose;
           (AWT)                            parameterize; relax
2          Rewrite to compound 18           Propagate from predicted AWT, not 5OVF; apply, parameterize, relax
           (AWZ)
3          Grow compound 21 (AWW)           New ring enters the Phe890-in volume; fixed-core representative gains four
                                            clashes
4          Resolve pocket state             Enumerate discrete Phe890 rotamers; select outward branch; retain the
                                            moved receptor as the next reference
5          Predict BAY-293 (AXH)            Grow from frozen AWW; 64-chain pose search; apply; parameterize without
                                            motion; relax; freeze
6          Evaluate holdouts                Compare AWT/AWZ/AWW/BAY-293 with 5OVF/5OVG/5OVH/5OVI

The Phe890 conformational step is treated as a discrete state search because local minimization does not reliably
cross the relevant side-chain torsional barrier. Separate rotamer basins are generated before local ligand–pocket
relaxation. Feasible branches are ranked first by clashes introduced by ligand growth, then by pose score and finite
relaxed energy. The nominal −60◦ branch adds four clashes above the fixed-core baseline and is rejected; the −180◦
branch adds none and is selected; the +60◦ branch adds two and remains feasible. The outward Phe890 χ1 basin is
therefore selected before 5OVH or 5OVI is revealed.
For post-freeze structural evaluation, predicted receptors are aligned to their holdouts using 23, 25, 25, and 27 pocket
Cα atoms for AWT through AXH. Ligand RMSD is then calculated over 29, 31, 31, and 32 heavy atoms, minimizing
over 2, 1, 1, and 1 graph-symmetry mappings, respectively; the ligand itself is not fitted. Results are reported in
Table 7.

Table 7: Post-freeze structural evaluation. Torsions are predicted/crystal in degrees; ligand RMSD is receptor-
aligned and graph-symmetry-minimized.

               Prediction      Holdout     Ligand RMSD (Å)           Phe890 χ1          Phe890 χ2
               AWT             5OVF        0.516                     -77.6 / -71.5      -71.7 / -71.7
               AWZ             5OVG        1.528                     -73.4 / -75.6      -92.0 / -87.9
               AWW             5OVH        2.137                     -172.2 / +175.8    +116.1 / +76.3
               BAY-293         5OVI        1.215                     -172.4 / -166.5    +108.7 / +71.7


The replay recovers the experimentally observed outward Phe890 χ1 basin before exposure to 5OVH or 5OVI.
The terminal χ2 orientation is less accurate, differing by approximately 40◦ for AWW and 37◦ for BAY-293. The
corresponding ligand RMSDs range from 0.516 to 2.137 Å under receptor-aligned, symmetry-minimized evaluation.
The interface replay executes from a blank canvas through the public Chemist Actions API. Candidate-generation
operations leave coordinates unchanged until an explicit Apply action. The replay therefore represents discrete state


                                                          19
Molarium — Appendix A                                                                          Wiewiora and Sherman



transitions rather than interpolated trajectories or molecular dynamics. Its 48-action rendered sequence lasts 62.58 s
while the underlying audit records approximately 908.5 s of operation durations; timing remains attached to the
audit and render manifest, and the rendered sequence is not used as a performance benchmark. Comparison of
fragment-bound 6EPM with the 5OVE starting structure shows that the inhibitory Tyr884 arrangement is already
present at the coordinate boundary; the hit-only route does not predict a Tyr884 transition.




                                                         20
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                           Wiewiora and Sherman



                                              APPENDIX B
 Working with Molarium: scientific workflows for humans
                     and agents

Molarium is designed so that a scientist working through the graphical interface and an agent operating through the
Chemist Actions API act on the same molecular state and encounter the same scientific boundaries. This appendix
therefore describes Molarium by scientific task, not by software module.
Each workflow begins with the question a scientist is trying to answer. The human procedure explains how to
perform the task and what to inspect before accepting the result. The accompanying agent skill contract expresses
the same procedure as preconditions, permitted actions, evidence, success criteria, and stopping conditions. The two
views are intentionally paired: a procedure should be understandable by a scientist and sufficiently explicit that an
agent cannot silently change its meaning.
Implementation basis. This appendix describes the inspected browser implementation prepared on 2 September
2026 for the public Molarium release. It distinguishes current browser behavior from executable but experimental
behavior. Repository-only and proposed functionality is not presented as an operating instruction. User-facing
workspace names are View, Design, and Simulate; the serialized values remain view, build, and run so existing
action scripts remain replayable.

B.1    One molecular state, two interfaces
Status. Current browser surface.
The question. What changes the molecule, and what merely changes how I am looking at it?
Molarium separates the authoritative molecular state from the interface used to manipulate it. A scientist can work
in View, Design, and Simulate; an agent can invoke the same guarded scientific operations through the versioned
Chemist Actions API. Both routes act on the same graph, coordinates, selections, calculation records, and pending
chemistry transaction. Browser-native transport—choosing a local file, writing to the clipboard, downloading a
file, or entering fullscreen—remains outside the molecular API; the state-changing operation before or after that
boundary has a named action.
Rotating the camera, changing a representation, focusing a component, or showing contacts changes only the
presentation. Loading a structure, applying a protonation state, finishing a chemistry transaction, accepting a
docking candidate, running a coordinate-producing Simulate job, or selecting or playing a saved calculation frame
changes the current coordinates or graph. Refined-pose and side-chain alternatives remain candidates until explicitly
applied.
The common operating rule. Inspect, act, verify. Generate alternatives freely, but change the authoritative
molecular state deliberately. A valid operation is not automatically a scientifically appropriate one; acceptance still
depends on the question being asked.
Starting from a structure
Start with ?blank when a reproducible workflow should begin from an empty canvas. Otherwise the application
loads its bundled launch molecule. A structure can be pasted as XYZ or PDB text, uploaded as XYZ or PDB,
entered as a SMILES string or PDB identifier in connected mode, or selected from the prepared examples. The
current upload router should not be relied on for ordinary MOL-file ingestion, even though a V2000 parser exists
elsewhere in the application.
After loading, inspect atom count, formula, formal charge, connected components, graph connectivity, and the 3D
structure. For a selected small-molecule component, compare the synchronized 2D depiction with the 3D graph. For
PDB input, remember that only the first model is loaded and alternate locations are resolved by the implemented
occupancy policy. For XYZ input, bonds are inferred from proximity and should be checked rather than assumed.
State and persistence
Loading a new molecule resets incompatible calculation, docking, selection, and preparation state. The working
session is in memory: Clear, page reload, or script import can discard unsaved work. Share copies a URL rather
than serializing the current molecule, and Save produces a PNG rather than a reusable molecular record. Export the


                                                          21
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                               Wiewiora and Sherman



scientific record needed by the next step before replacing or clearing the scene.
Agent skill contract: operate_molecular_state

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Load and inspect a starting structure without confusing a visual change, candidate, or imported
                       approximation with an accepted molecular state.
Preconditions          A supported input or prepared example is available; connected-mode requirements are known.
Inputs                 Input type and contents; intended component; optional network policy; requested inspection fields.
Procedure              Start blank when reproducibility requires it; load through a supported route; inspect graph,
                       components, charge, and coordinates; report ambiguities before any mutation.
State mutation         A successful load replaces the current molecule and resets dependent state. View and selection
                       operations do not alter graph chemistry.
Evidence               Source identity or input hash where available; atom/component summary; explicit warnings about
                       inferred bonds, alternate locations, or network retrieval.
Success                The loaded graph and coordinates correspond to the intended starting object and all material
                       ambiguities have been surfaced.
On failure             Leave the prior scene in place where the interface does so; report the parse, fetch, or format error;
                       do not reinterpret an unsupported file silently.
Boundary               No autosave or complete-session archive; an image or share link is not a reusable molecular state.


Structure text, identifiers, and prepared examples have explicit loading actions. A local file picker only supplies
bytes to session.loadStructure; it is not an alternate molecular loader:
await api.execute({action:"session.loadStructure", args:{
  format:"pdb", content:pdbText, name:"starting complex"}})
// alternatives:
await api.execute({action:"session.loadIdentifier",
  args:{value:"5OVE", kind:"pdb"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.loadFixture",
  args:{fixtureId:"trp-cage"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"all", includeCoordinates:false, maximumAtoms:500}})
await api.execute({action:"view.setDisplay",
  args:{representation:"both", showHydrogens:false,
        showPocketAtoms:true, showInteractions:true}})

Registered prospective routes and public structure stories retain their narrower guarded loaders (designRoute.load
and structureStory.load).

B.2    Prepare a protein for local molecular design
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. I have an experimental protein structure. What must happen before I can safely edit a ligand or run
a local calculation?
A deposited PDB structure is not automatically a simulation-ready system. Atoms may be missing, alternate
locations may have been chosen, protonation can be ambiguous, crystallographic waters may or may not matter,
and ligands or unusual residues may exceed the supported parameterization. Molarium’s preparation workflow is
deliberately conservative: it makes a bounded set of assumptions explicit, performs repairs it knows how to perform,
and stops when the structure exceeds those capabilities.
Human workflow
 1. Load the PDB structure and inspect the protein, ligand, waters, other components, and the region around the
    intended binding site before preparing anything.
 2. Open Protein Preparation. Choose pH, histidine policy, supported missing-heavy-atom repair, ligand
    treatment, water treatment, and gap policy.



                                                           22
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                             Wiewiora and Sherman



 3. Run Prepare structure. Molarium constructs an internal preview that inventories residues, missing atoms,
    sequence gaps, ligands, waters, clashes, and invalid coordinates. Within scope, it can retrieve CCD information,
    reconstruct supported missing side-chain atoms, add standard hydrogens and terminal oxygen, choose histidine
    states, and scan polar-hydrogen orientations.
 4. An unresolved blocker stops the operation and exposes the preview for review. A blocker-free preview is
    immediately parameterized and applied; there is no normal second Apply step.
 5. Inspect every applied change, warning, and attached audit. Download the preparation report if the decisions
    must survive the browser session.

What should I inspect?
• Ligand identity, connectivity, completeness, and whether it should be retained or excluded.
• Histidine and other local protonation choices near the ligand or catalytic region.
• Crystallographic waters that bridge interactions or define the local geometry.
• Missing atoms, chain breaks, unresolved regions, reconstructed geometry, and severe clashes near the region of
  interest.
• Whether the resulting force-field and charge assumptions match the scientific question.
Acceptance is narrower than success. A clean preview means Molarium completed its declared preparation
procedure. It does not certify a production molecular-dynamics system. The implementation explicitly records
readyForProductionSimulation: false.
Preparation blocks unsupported residues, unsupported missing atoms, incomplete retained ligands, disallowed gaps,
invalid coordinates, and severe clashes. It does not currently construct missing loops or membranes, model general
metal coordination, parameterize covalent ligands, or build periodic explicit-solvent boxes. Arbitrary proteins use an
experimental Sage/Gasteiger route.
Agent skill contract: prepare_protein

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Convert the loaded PDB into an explicitly reviewed molecular state suitable for a supported local
                       Molarium calculation.
Preconditions          A PDB-derived structure is loaded; the intended downstream use is known; ligand and water roles
                       can be reviewed.
Inputs                 pH; histidine policy; missing-heavy-atom repair policy; ligand policy; water policy; gap policy.
Procedure              Inspect the starting structure; run preparation; review any blocking preview or the applied result;
                       export the report when persistence matters; stop on unresolved blockers.
State mutation         Prepared graph and coordinates replace the prior state; preparation audit and parameterization are
                       attached; one undo snapshot is created.
Evidence               Options, detected issues, repairs, warnings and blockers, preparation report, and resulting
                       parameterization identity.
Success                The declared procedure completes without unresolved blockers and its scope matches the intended
                       local calculation.
Failure behavior       Report the blocker and stop. Do not manufacture missing atoms, parameters, loop geometry, or
                       unsupported chemistry.
Escalate when          The problem requires loops, membranes, metal coordination, covalent chemistry, periodic solvent, or
                       another unsupported preparation capability.
Does not establish     Production simulation readiness or physical accuracy of the chosen downstream model.


Representative public actions are:
await api.execute({action:"protein.prepare", args:{
  pH:7.4, histidine:"auto", repairMissingHeavy:true,
  ligandPolicy:"ccd", waterPolicy:"crucial", gapPolicy:"block"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:false, maximumAtoms:500}})

The preparation action already parameterizes and applies a blocker-free result. protein.parameterize is a separate
alternative for an already prepared or subsequently edited complex, not the next mandatory call. The exact argument


                                                          23
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                            Wiewiora and Sherman



vocabulary returned by api.describe() is the runtime authority; this sequence illustrates the contract rather than
replacing that manifest.

B.3    Choose the protonation state you are designing
Status. Current ligand workflow; protein choices within experimental preparation.
The question. What charged and protonated species does the molecular graph actually represent?
Protonation is part of chemical identity, not a cosmetic display choice. It changes formal charge, hydrogen count,
hydrogen-bonding patterns, parameterization, and often the meaning of every calculation that follows. Molarium
exposes two related but distinct workflows: ligand-state enumeration through RDKit, and protein protonation
decisions inside the bounded PDB-preparation workflow.
Ligand workflow
 1. Load the ligand from a SMILES string or select the ligand component whose identity you intend to change.
 2. Choose a pH from 0 to 14 and enumerate candidate states. RDKit applies a versioned Dimorphite-style site table,
    edits formal charges and hydrogens, sanitizes each result, and returns an ordered list with estimated weights.
 3. Inspect each candidate as chemistry: total charge, changed atoms, tautomeric or aromatic consequences, and
    compatibility with known assay conditions or the bound environment.
 4. Apply one state deliberately. Molarium re-embeds the chosen species, replaces the graph and coordinates, and
    invalidates state that depended on the former topology.

Protein workflow
For a PDB structure, set the pH and histidine policy during preparation. The implemented policies include automatic
selection or explicit HID, HIE, and HIP choices, followed by inspection of polar-hydrogen orientations. Treat residues
near a ligand, metal, catalytic center, or salt-bridge network as scientific decisions rather than defaults.
What the reported ligand weights mean. They are independent Henderson-Hasselbalch estimates from the
implemented site model. They are not microscopic pKa predictions, coupled-site populations, or evidence for the
state selected by a protein binding site.
Agent skill contract: select_protonation_state

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Make the intended protonation and formal-charge state explicit before editing or calculation.
Preconditions          A valid ligand or PDB structure is loaded; the relevant pH or experimental condition is known or
                       stated as an assumption.
Inputs                 pH; candidate-state selection; for proteins, histidine policy and local residues requiring review.
Procedure              Enumerate or preview; compare candidates; inspect charge and local interactions; apply exactly one
                       accepted state; re-inspect the resulting graph.
State mutation         Applying a ligand state replaces graph and coordinates. Protein protonation changes are committed
                       through preparation. Prior parameterization becomes obsolete.
Evidence               pH, enumeration or preparation output, chosen state, total charge, changed sites, and stated
                       rationale when more than one state is plausible.
Success                The authoritative graph explicitly represents the intended state and downstream methods will see
                       the corresponding atoms and charges.
On failure             Report invalid pH, sanitization, embedding, or worker errors; do not partially apply or choose a
                       different state merely because it runs.
Boundary               Enumeration weights do not resolve coupled microscopic states or protein-induced pKa shifts.


Ligand-state enumeration and application use the same bounded worker and graph replacement as the visible pH
controls:
await api.execute({action:"ligand.enumerateProtonation",
  args:{pH:7.4, maximumStates:16}})
await api.execute({action:"ligand.applyProtonation", args:{index:0}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",


                                                          24
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                                Wiewiora and Sherman



  args:{scope:"ligand", includeCoordinates:false}})

Enumeration does not select a chemically correct state. The chosen index remains a reviewable scientific decision;
protein protonation is carried separately within protein.prepare.

B.4      Edit atoms, bonds, charges, and stereochemistry in 3D
Status. Current browser surface.
The question. How do I change the chemistry without corrupting the molecular graph or losing the ability to undo
the operation?
The synchronized 2D and 3D views are two ways of selecting the same graph. Chemistry-changing actions are
grouped into a transaction so that a related set of edits can be validated and committed as one scientific step.
Protein covalent atoms are protected from ordinary ligand editing.
Human workflow
 1. Enter Design and select the relevant atom or bond in either view. Confirm the stable atom identity and local
    environment before changing it.
 2. Apply the intended element replacement, bond order or aromaticity change, formal charge, explicit hydrogen, or
    stereochemical operation. Related operations remain in one pending chemistry transaction.
 3. For coordinate-only geometry changes, select a connected path of two, three, or four atoms to set a distance,
    angle, or dihedral. Molarium moves the connected side defined by the graph and blocks ambiguous ring cuts.
 4. Choose Finish chemistry. RDKit sanitizes the graph, hydrogens are reconciled, eligible local coordinates are
    polished, reference contacts are remapped where applicable, obsolete parameterization is invalidated, and a
    single undo snapshot is created.
 5. If validation fails, correct the still-pending transaction or choose Discard to restore the pre-edit state. Use
    Undo/Redo only after a transaction has been committed.

What should I inspect?
• Valence, formal charge, aromaticity, hydrogen count, stereochemistry, and the intended bond topology.
• Whether the 2D depiction and 3D graph agree after sanitization.
• New close contacts, distorted local geometry, and movement outside the edited region.
• Whether topology-dependent records—parameterization, docking mapping, or calculation results—were invalidated
  or remapped as expected.
A synchronous mutation error restores the transaction snapshot. If the chemistry is valid but optional coordinate
polishing fails, the valid graph can remain committed and the cleanup error is recorded. Fused-aromatic edits that
cannot preserve the aromatic graph are rejected rather than approximated.
Distance, angle, dihedral, atom translation, and graph-chemistry controls all have named actions. A representative
graph edit follows; coordinate-only edits use geometry.setInternalCoordinate or geometry.translateAtoms and
remain separate from chemistry.finish.
Agent skill contract: edit_molecular_graph

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Apply an explicit, reviewable graph or local-geometry change while preserving atomic lineage and
                       undoability.
Preconditions          The intended editable component is identified; no unrelated transaction is pending; the target atoms
                       or bond are unambiguous.
Inputs                 Selected stable atom identifiers; edit type and value; optional connected geometry path; intended
                       transaction boundary.
Procedure              Inspect target; open or join a transaction; apply supported edits; finish once; inspect sanitized graph
                       and local coordinates.
State mutation         Graph edits remain provisional until Finish. Finish commits one new state and invalidates obsolete
                       parameterization; Discard restores the starting state.
                                                                                                   Continued on next page


                                                           25
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                                  Wiewiora and Sherman



Contract element        Requirement
Evidence                Pre-edit identity, ordered public actions, changed atoms and bonds, sanitization outcome, cleanup
                        outcome, and final inspection.
Success                 The final graph encodes the intended chemistry, sanitizes successfully, and passes local visual and
                        structural checks.
On failure              Keep the transaction pending for correction or discard it. Never bypass sanitization or inject
                        coordinates directly.
Boundary                Local graph validity does not establish synthetic feasibility, tautomer preference, binding affinity, or
                        global conformational plausibility.


await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"build.setTool", args:{tool:"select"}})
await api.execute({action:"selection.replace", args:{atomIds:[anchorId]}})
await api.execute({action:"chemistry.addAtom",
  args:{attachedToAtomId:anchorId, element:"Cl"}})
await api.execute({action:"chemistry.finish", args:{}})
await api.execute({action:"geometry.setInternalCoordinate",
  args:{atomIds:[a,b,c,d], value:172.0, moveConnected:true}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"ligand", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:200}})

The serialized value build selects the user-facing Design workspace; it is retained for action-script compatibility.

B.5    Grow an analogue by adding and positioning fragments
Status. Current Design workspace; pose-aware extensions experimental.
The question. How do I add the substituent I have in mind while preserving the useful context of the parent
structure?
Fragment growth combines a graph edit with an initial 3D placement. Those are separate scientific problems: the new
molecule must first be chemically correct, and its coordinates must then be a plausible starting point for relaxation
or pose maintenance. Molarium’s Design workspace stages a fragment template and applies its attachment as one
undoable edit. Subsequent atom, bond, charge, hydrogen, or stereochemical changes use the pending chemistry
transaction described above.
Human workflow
 1. If the parent is bound and its pose matters, capture the reference pose before beginning the topology change.
    Retain any explicit core or interaction choices needed for later pose maintenance.
 2. Select the ligand attachment atom and stage the desired fragment or template. Confirm which atoms are new,
    which parent atom remains the anchor, and which bond is to be formed.
 3. Apply the attachment as one undoable fragment edit. Perform any associated leaving-group, bond-order,
    formal-charge, hydrogen, or stereochemical changes as a subsequent pending chemistry transaction.
 4. Use distance, angle, and dihedral controls to give the new group a sensible initial orientation. These controls
    establish a starting geometry; they do not score the binding site.
 5. Finish any subsequent pending chemistry, then inspect the attachment, local valence, stereochemistry, ring
    geometry, clashes, and preserved parent coordinates. Relax the structure or invoke reference-guided pose
    maintenance as a separate step.

How should I judge the result?
A successful fragment operation means that the intended graph was built and sanitized. It does not mean that the
chosen rotamer, ring conformation, or pocket orientation is preferred. For a solvent-exposed edit, local minimization
may be enough to remove construction strain. For an edit that changes pocket contacts or releases a ring, use a
workflow that samples alternatives and retains the relationship to the experimental reference.
Enumeration boundary. Development modules can represent bounded edit plans, but general combinatorial
enumeration, library management, automated campaign selection, and automatic MCS transfer of an independently



                                                             26
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                              Wiewiora and Sherman



imported analogue are not current workbench workflows.
Agent skill contract: grow_fragment

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Construct one intended analogue and a reviewable starting geometry while retaining parent atom
                       lineage and, when requested, reference-pose context.
Preconditions          Editable ligand and attachment atom identified; fragment chemistry specified; reference captured
                       first if pose continuity matters.
Inputs                 Parent and attachment atom identifiers; fragment/template; new bond; associated deletions, charge
                       or stereochemical edits; optional geometry targets.
Procedure              Capture reference if needed; stage and attach the fragment; perform and finish any associated
                       atom/bond transaction; set only the geometry needed for a starting pose; inspect; relax or sample
                       separately.
State mutation         Attachment commits the fragment graph and an undo snapshot immediately. Finishing a later
                       atom/bond transaction commits those additional changes. A later pose or optimization changes
                       coordinates separately.
Evidence               Parent and product inspection, atom mapping, edit actions, transaction outcome, initial placement
                       rationale, and any preserved reference/contact record.
Success                The attached analogue graph is correct on inspection; any subsequent chemistry transaction is
                       sanitized; the initial geometry has no obvious construction pathology and is suitable for the chosen
                       next workflow.
On failure             A failed attachment leaves the prior molecule in place. Correct or discard any subsequent pending
                       chemistry transaction. Do not treat failed cleanup as permission to accept an invalid graph or
                       arbitrary pose.
Boundary               Fragment growth is not combinatorial design, synthesis planning, global docking, or proof that the
                       new group is energetically favored.


Generic fragment-template staging and attachment use fragment.stage and fragment.attach; individual
atom/bond edits and registered designRoute.applyStep operations remain available. For a registered, hash-pinned
prospective route, an agent can stage a predefined product graph. attachmentAtomId is required only when that
route declares designer-directed spatialIntent; the SOS1 route does not:
await api.execute({action:"fragment.stage",
  args:{smiles:"c1ccncc1", name:"pyridyl", attachmentIndex:0}})
await api.execute({action:"fragment.attach",
  args:{attachedToAtomId:anchorId}})

await api.execute({action:"designRoute.load",
  args:{routeId:"sos1-hit-only"}})
await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"protein.prepare", args:{
  pH:7.4, histidine:"auto", repairMissingHeavy:true,
  ligandPolicy:"ccd", waterPolicy:"retain", gapPolicy:"cap"}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.captureReference",
  args:{mode:"propagate"}})
await api.execute({action:"designRoute.applyStep",
  args:{stepId:"scaffold-rewrite"}})
await api.execute({action:"designRoute.inspect", args:{}})

Registered routes constrain prospective inputs and permitted edits; they are not retrospective campaign ledgers.

B.6      Relax a structure, run bounded dynamics, and inspect motion
Status. Current and experimental methods with different scopes.
The question. I have made a structure. Does its geometry survive relaxation, and what moves during a short
calculation?
Choose the method from the scientific question, not from a generic expectation that every engine answers the same


                                                          27
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                                  Wiewiora and Sherman



thing. Molarium exposes several numerical pathways whose energies are not interchangeable. Record the selected
model, solvent, constraints, and protocol before interpreting the result.

       Question                    Method          What it provides                     Principal boundary
       Small-molecule cleanup      RDKit           Energy, geometry optimization,       The reported 0.1 fs dynamics path
       or short force-field mo-                    and short dynamics using the         is a workbench calculation, not a
       tion                                        RDKit force-field path.              production trajectory.
       Sage energy,       relax-   Direct   We-    Browser-GPU energy, forces, ge-      Experimental; f32; direct dynam-
       ation,    or bounded        bGPU            ometry, and saved frames from        ics capped at 5,000 steps; no PBC
       single-system MD                            the numeric Sage system.             or PME.
       Many replicas of one        WebGPU en-      Homogeneous replica dynamics         Experimental; at most 512 atoms
       topology                    semble          with energies, frames, timing,       per replica, 1,024 replicas, and
                                                   and constraint diagnostics.          100,000 steps; nonperiodic all-
                                                                                        pairs model.
       Electronic energy or ge-    ANI-2x          Eight-model ANI-2x ensemble          Experimental; connected neu-
       ometry for an eligible                      energy, spread, analytical forces,   tral singlets with explicit H;
       neutral molecule                            and optional optimized coordi-       H/C/N/O/S/F/Cl only; at most
                                                   nates.                               96 atoms.
       Reference calculation in-   OpenMM 8.2      Double-precision internal param-     Internal subsystem, not a se-
       side another workflow       Reference       eterization, scoring, relaxation,    lectable general Simulate method.
                                                   and validation path.



Human workflow
 1. Finish any pending chemistry. Confirm that the molecule is eligible for the chosen engine and, where required,
    can be completely parameterized.
 2. In Simulate, choose the job and compatible method. Set the step count, vacuum or OBC2/ACE implicit
    solvent, X-H constraints where supported, saved frames, and ensemble options.
 3. Run once. Inspect the engine or model identity, force field, charge model, solvent, constraints, initial and final
    energy, convergence or diagnostic status, elapsed time, and all warnings.
 4. For dynamics, step through saved frames or replicas and inspect the region relevant to the design question.
    Display alignment does not overwrite raw calculation coordinates.
 5. Review or export coordinates only when the result passes the declared acceptance check. Coordinate-producing
    jobs immediately update the current coordinates when they complete, and selecting or playing a saved frame
    writes that frame into the current molecule. Export the starting coordinates first when reversibility matters.
    Current-frame XYZ is available; saved frames are a bounded sample, and the workbench has no generic
    full-trajectory-file export.

Interpreting the model
Automatic Sage parameterization uses deterministic Gasteiger charges rather than AM1-BCC or NAGL. Unsupported
elements, invalid chemistry, or missing required parameters fail instead of silently dropping terms. The exposed
workflows are nonperiodic and do not provide PME, a barostat, explicit-solvent setup, generic production protein
simulation, or binding free energy.
Agent skill contract: relax_or_simulate

Contract element          Requirement
Goal                      Use a declared numerical model to test local geometry or bounded motion and retain enough
                          metadata to interpret the result.
Preconditions             No chemistry transaction is pending; method eligibility and complete parameterization are
                          established; an acceptance observable is specified.
Inputs                    Job; method; steps; solvent; constraints; saved frames; fixed or movable atoms where supported;
                          ensemble settings.
Procedure                 Validate eligibility; record model and protocol; export the starting coordinates when reversibility
                          matters; run one compatible job; inspect energies, diagnostics, and frames.
                                                                                                      Continued on next page

                                                              28
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                                 Wiewiora and Sherman



Contract element       Requirement
State mutation         Energy jobs do not move the molecule. Successful coordinate-producing jobs immediately replace
                       current coordinates, and selecting a saved frame also writes current coordinates; raw frames remain
                       calculation records.
Evidence               Engine/model version and hashes where recorded, force field, charge model, solvent, constraints,
                       timestep, energies, convergence/diagnostics, timing, frames, and warnings.
Success                The worker returns a finite, internally valid result and the predefined structural check is satisfied
                       within the method’s declared scope.
On failure             Keep the prior graph and coordinates; record the returned error; correct eligibility, options, or assets
                       before retrying.
Boundary               A minimized pose or short stable trace is not an affinity estimate, equilibrium ensemble, free-energy
                       calculation, or production trajectory.


The current public API exposes a bounded Design optimizer:
await api.execute({action:"view.setMode", args:{mode:"build"}})
await api.execute({action:"optimization.run",
  args:{method:"induced-fit-webgpu"}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:500}})

General Simulate jobs use calculation.run; the action accepts only the installed engine/job combinations and the
same bounded options as the interface. Selecting a returned frame is explicit because it writes those coordinates into
the current molecule:
await api.execute({action:"calculation.run", args:{
  job:"dynamics", method:"stormm",
  options:{stormmSystem:"current", steps:1000,
           savedFrameCount:20, replicaCount:32}}})
await api.execute({action:"calculation.selectFrame", args:{index:19}})


B.7    Explore conformations with Conformer Arena
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. What other conformations can this molecule adopt, and how sensitive is the answer to the generation
and refinement method?
Conformer search is an alternative-generation problem. Molarium separates seed generation, physical refinement,
clustering, comparison, and selection so that a low-energy-looking structure is not confused with proof that the
ensemble is complete or Boltzmann weighted.
Human workflow
 1. Start from a chemically finished small molecule with explicit hydrogens and a sensible protonation state. Recenter
    the structure before tight STORMM positional comparisons, because fixed-point spatial precision degrades far
    from the working origin.
 2. Choose WebGPU ensemble and Conformer search. Set the requested conformer count, effort, clustering
    cutoff, solvent/constraint options, and whether to open the comparison arena.
 3. Molarium generates deterministic RDKit conformer seeds, up to the implemented cap of 256. The STORMM
    protocol then performs staged relaxation, heating at 600 K, cooling through 450 K and 300 K, and final relaxation
    across homogeneous replicas.
 4. Inspect the returned ensemble before selecting a representative: energy range, distinct RMSD clusters, cluster
    populations, recurring torsions, ring states, constraint diagnostics, and obvious duplicates or failures.
 5. Use Conformer Arena to compare supported pathways on the same molecule and settings. Ask whether the
    methods discover the same basins, not merely whether they rank one shared conformer similarly.
 6. Select a conformer only after inspection. Selection changes the displayed/current coordinates. Export the
    ensemble as SDF when it fits V2000 record limits; retain method and clustering metadata separately.

What does the result establish?

                                                            29
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                               Wiewiora and Sherman



The workflow shows which basins the declared finite search found and how the supported methods behaved on
that search. The anneal/minimize protocol is a search heuristic, so replica counts and cluster frequencies are not
thermodynamic populations. Failure to find a conformation is not evidence that it is inaccessible, and energy
differences from different force fields are not directly comparable.
Agent skill contract: explore_conformers

Contract element       Requirement
Goal                   Generate, refine, cluster, and compare a finite set of conformational alternatives for one molecular
                       topology.
Preconditions          Chemistry and protonation are finalized; molecule is eligible; intended use and comparison metric
                       are stated.
Inputs                 Conformer count; effort; cluster cutoff; seed; solvent and constraints; arena choice; acceptance or
                       diversity criteria.
Procedure              Generate RDKit seeds; run declared refinement protocol; cluster and inspect; compare basins in
                       Arena when requested; select or export without rewriting raw records.
State mutation         Search produces an ensemble and raw calculation evidence. Selecting a frame or conformer writes its
                       coordinates into the current molecule.
Evidence               Seed and method identity, requested and returned counts, energies, cluster assignments, diagnostics,
                       timings, and exported ensemble where applicable.
Success                A finite set of valid, distinct candidates is produced and its diversity is sufficient for the stated
                       downstream purpose.
On failure             Report parameterization, eligibility, replica, overflow, or pair-work limits; reduce scope or escalate
                       rather than hiding missing replicas.
Boundary               Not exhaustive conformational sampling, a Boltzmann ensemble, solution free energies, or proof of
                       bioactive-conformation probability.


Conformer search and Arena use calculation.run; result selection uses calculation.selectConformer. Arena
axes, filtering, and sorting are presentation controls exposed through calculation.setConformerView; they do not
create new conformers:
await api.execute({action:"calculation.run", args:{
  job:"conformers", method:"stormm",
  options:{conformerCount:32, conformerEffort:"standard",
           conformerClusterRms:0.75, conformerArena:true}}})
await api.execute({action:"calculation.selectConformer", args:{rank:0}})


B.8      Predict a short single-chain protein structure
Status. Experimental current surface; connected mode only.
The question. Can Molarium create a protein structure from sequence, and is this the co-folding workflow?
This is not currently co-folding. The implemented workflow predicts one protein entity from one sequence. It
does not accept a ligand for joint protein-ligand prediction, does not predict a multimer, and does not maintain a
starting ligand pose. Calling it co-folding would overstate the present capability.
The Fold Protein panel combines a configured remote MSA service with local OpenFold ONNX inference. The
sequence is transmitted to the selected MSA endpoint; model inference then runs in the browser, preferring WebGPU
and falling back to WASM. Local Lab disables the external MSA path.
Human workflow
 1. Enter one amino-acid sequence using the standard residue alphabet or X. The current maximum length is 128
    residues, using 64- or 128-residue feature buckets.
 2. Inspect and accept the configured MSA endpoint and network boundary. First use may require approximately
    540 MB of model assets.
 3. Run and monitor MSA and inference progress. The current browser model executes three recycle passes; this
    count is not user-configurable. Cancel aborts the active MSA/prediction controller.


                                                           30
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                                 Wiewiora and Sherman



 4. On success, Molarium loads the prediction as the current molecule. Inspect chain completeness, residue mapping,
    gross geometry, and suitability for the downstream question before replacing other work.
 5. Export the predicted structure as PDB if it must persist. Preparation and local relaxation are separate decisions.
The current path does not use templates or perform Amber relaxation. It creates no server-side job ledger. Fetch,
archive, feature, model, or inference failure produces no partial prediction. A returned structure is a model output,
not experimental evidence or a prepared simulation system.
Agent skill contract: predict_protein_structure

Contract element         Requirement
Goal                     Predict coordinates for one short protein sequence using the declared MSA service and local
                         OpenFold model.
Preconditions            Connected mode; configured MSA endpoint; sequence length at most 128; network and model-asset
                         use accepted.
Inputs                   One sequence and MSA endpoint; the current model uses three recycle passes.
Procedure                Validate sequence; disclose external transmission; obtain and validate MSA; run the matching
                         ONNX bucket; inspect result; export before replacing it.
State mutation           A successful prediction replaces the current molecule. Failure does not load a partial structure.
Evidence                 Input sequence and endpoint, model/bucket and executed recycle count, progress/failure record,
                         prediction metadata, and exported PDB where required.
Success                  A complete finite prediction is returned for the declared input and passes basic structural inspection
                         for the intended next step.
On failure               Report MSA, archive, rate-limit, maintenance, timeout, feature, asset, or inference failure; do not
                         fabricate a partial structure.
Boundary                 No ligand co-folding, multimer prediction, templates, Amber relaxation, experimental validation, or
                         production preparation.


The workflow is exposed as protein.predict; protein.cancelPrediction aborts the active request. The MSA
endpoint remains an explicit network boundary rather than a hidden service call:
await api.execute({action:"protein.predict", args:{
  sequence:fastaText, msaEndpoint:"https://msa.example/api"}})
// while active:
await api.execute({action:"protein.cancelPrediction", args:{}})


B.9     Maintain an experimental pose while changing ligand chemistry
Status. Experimental current surface.
The question. I trust the experimental pose of my starting ligand. How can I search for a plausible pose of an
edited analogue without discarding what I already know?
Reference-guided docking is a local analogue pose-maintenance workflow. It preserves stable atom identities and
selected interactions from a prepared reference complex, searches the degrees of freedom introduced by an edit,
rejects infeasible candidates, and ranks distinct feasible poses in a rigid local receptor site. It is intentionally narrower
than global docking.
Human workflow
 1. Prepare and inspect the reference protein-ligand complex. In Design, capture the reference before editing. The
    capture stores ligand lineage, receptor atoms within 8 Å, reference contacts, selected hydrogen bonds, settings,
    and provenance.
 2. Use the default Pose propagation mode to map surviving reference atoms and seed the edited region. Use
    Expert selected core only when you can justify at least three connected, non-collinear heavy atoms as a fixed
    reference.
 3. Edit and finish the analogue. Review remapped or unavailable contacts, transformed ring regions, atom mapping,
    and any constraints before starting the search.



                                                             31
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                               Wiewiora and Sherman



 4. Run the constrained search. Molarium verifies receptor and contact integrity, releases eligible transformed
    rings, generates deterministic feature and torsion seeds, freshly parameterizes the edited ligand, relaxes feasible
    candidates, and scores the distinct results.
 5. Inspect the ranked candidates, not only rank 1. Compare mapped-core displacement, preserved or replaced
    interactions, ligand strain, clashes, ring and side-chain choices, and the reasons candidates were rejected.
 6. Apply one candidate explicitly. Candidate generation does not change the authoritative molecule. Application
    rechecks topology and receptor integrity before replacing coordinates. Export the labbook as JSON and
    human-readable Markdown/notes.

What is being scored?
The ranker uses a rigid receptor site within 8 Å, Lennard-Jones and Coulomb ligand-receptor cross terms with
relative dielectric 4, and relative vacuum ligand strain. It omits general receptor relaxation, water displacement,
entropy, binding free energy, and broad macrocycle or fused-ring concerted search. The separate induced-fit Design
optimizer is not part of this ranker and is not an affinity calculation.
Negative results are results. An invalid core, altered receptor, unmappable required atom, unavailable contact
feature, parameterization failure, or absence of feasible candidates produces an explicit failed or negative record.
Molarium does not silently apply the least-bad pose.
Agent skill contract: maintain_reference_pose

Contract element        Requirement
Goal                    Generate and review plausible local poses for one edited analogue while retaining explicit
                        relationships to a trusted reference complex.
Preconditions           Prepared complex; trusted reference pose; reference captured before edit; chemistry finished;
                        receptor unchanged; required contacts available.
Inputs                  Pose-propagation or expert-core mode; selected core or contacts; cleanup/contact policy; candidate
                        count; analogue graph.
Procedure               Capture; edit; finish; verify mapping and receptor integrity; generate and score feasible candidates;
                        inspect alternatives; apply one explicitly or retain a negative result.
State mutation          Capture and search create reference and candidate records. Only Apply replaces the current
                        coordinates.
Evidence                Protocol/settings snapshot, hashes, atom mapping, contact decisions, constraints, rejected
                        candidates, scores, selected pose, and chained labbook.
Success                 At least one feasible distinct candidate survives the declared constraints and a human or agent can
                        justify any applied selection from the recorded evidence.
On failure              Apply nothing; preserve the negative labbook; repair the reference, mapping, constraints, or
                        chemistry before rerunning.
Boundary                Local analogue pose maintenance only—not global docking, automatic MCS pose transfer,
                        receptor-ensemble docking, or affinity/free-energy prediction.


await api.execute({action:"pose.captureReference",
  args:{mode:"propagate"}})
// perform and finish the intended molecular-graph edit
await api.execute({action:"pose.refine",
  args:{searchChains:16}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.apply", args:{index:0}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect",
  args:{scope:"pocket", includeCoordinates:true, maximumAtoms:500}})

For a receptor-side-chain alternative, the required order is:
await api.execute({action:"pose.enumerateSidechainRotamers",
  args:{receptorAtomId:sidechainAtomId, maximumCandidates:32}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.applySidechainRotamer", args:{index:5}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.updateReceptorReference", args:{}})
await api.execute({action:"pose.refine", args:{searchChains:64}})



                                                            32
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                                 Wiewiora and Sherman



Enumeration itself remains non-mutating; the selected receptor coordinates are applied explicitly and then made the
new reference before another ligand-pose search.

B.10     Record, replay, and hand off a design process
Status. Current action/replay and Design History surfaces.
The question. I have done something scientifically useful. What must I export so that another scientist or an agent
can understand and reproduce it?
Molarium records several different kinds of evidence. They answer different questions and should not be treated
as interchangeable. The live action audit says what was requested; a calculation or workflow record says what
method ran and what it returned; an action script says how to replay completed public operations; and Design
History represents a durable sequence of content-addressed states and decisions. The current workbench does not
automatically combine every scientific record into one complete project archive.

Record                    Question answered                                    Persistence and limit
Chemist Actions audit     What recognized public action was requested, with    Session memory; serialized calls; bounded his-
                          what arguments and outcome?                          tory, normally 500 entries; cleared with the
                                                                               scene unless exported through a script path.
Preparation or calcula-   What system, model, settings, energies, frames,      Attached to the in-memory state and available
tion record               warnings, or audit produced this result?             through workflow-specific reports or exports.
Docking labbook           How were mapping, feasibility, scoring, rejection,   Exportable JSON and Markdown/notes with
                          and selection handled?                               chained hashes.
Designer action script    Which completed public actions should be re-         Exportable JSON; replay invokes the same
                          played?                                              guarded routes; not a complete UI or binary
                                                                               session snapshot.
Registered    design      What prospective, hash-pinned edit/evaluation se-    Validated route schema; distinct from retrospec-
route                     quence is permitted?                                 tive history.
Design History cam-       What content-addressed structures, decisions, com-   Live browser surface with locally persisted com-
paign                     mits, and branches form the design history?          mits, branches, merges, decisions, integrity
                                                                               events, import, and export.


Replay workflow
Designer Moves import begins from a blank canvas and performs script-level validation of schema, recognized
action names, binding order, and forbidden shortcut keys. Individual action arguments and molecular preconditions
are checked when each step executes. Conversion from an audit includes only completed public actions and
excludes campaign administration. A standalone script therefore begins with an explicit reproducible loader such
as session.loadStructure, session.loadIdentifier, session.loadFixture, or designRoute.load; it cannot
depend on an unrecorded starting scene.
 1. Export any unsaved molecular or workflow records before importing a script; import intentionally clears the
    existing scene.
 2. Create a Designer action script from completed recognized public actions. Failed actions remain audit evidence
    but are not silently converted into successful replay steps.
 3. Import the validated script, restart it, and Play or step through it. Replay uses the same Chemist Actions
    routes, runtime validations, and workers as manual operation and produces a separate replay audit.
 4. Compare the resulting graph, coordinates, decisions, and errors with the intended endpoint. Export the replay
    audit and scientific records needed by the recipient.
 5. For a registered story or route, verify schema, referenced content, and SHA-256 before execution. Treat a hash
    chain as integrity evidence, not an authenticated author identity or proof of scientific truth.
Replay provides play/pause, previous/next-step review, stable captions, and a separate audit. Failed audit entries
remain evidence but are not converted silently into successful replay steps.

Live Design History
Design History is a live browser feature. campaign.create creates a locally persisted campaign and atomically
commits the visible molecule. campaign.commitCurrent stores a complete graph-and-coordinate snapshot together


                                                             33
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                               Wiewiora and Sherman



with completed public actions since the prior commit. Branch switching restores the exact head molecule and refuses
to proceed when the visible molecular state is dirty. Merge records the currently visible result with two parents; it is
not an automatic structural merge. Decisions attach disposition, rationale, reason codes, and optional evidence to a
commit. Verification recomputes content hashes, the append-only event chain, commit relationships, and branch
heads derived from that chain.
Campaign JSON and the active branch are stored in browser IndexedDB. Reload restores the graph and coordinates
at the active branch head; it does not restore parameter tables, docking candidates, calculation frames, view
state, or the complete workbench session. campaign.import verifies the canonical JSON and requires a restorable
graph/coordinate snapshot before mutating live state; campaign.export returns that canonical JSON. Closing a
campaign clears the active pointer without deleting its commits. A live commit can attach a script of completed
molecular Chemist Actions; the complete molecular snapshot remains authoritative. Campaign-management actions
are excluded from molecule replay scripts so replay cannot recursively administer its own history.
Choose the export that matches the handoff

Export                 Carries                                         Does not carry
XYZ current frame      Displayed coordinates                           Full topology metadata, history, or provenance
SDF conformer en-      Exportable conformer graph and coordinates      Unrelated session state or complete search history
semble
PDB protein            Imported or predicted protein coordinates       Complete application or preparation provenance
                       and supported annotations
Preparation JSON       Policies, issues, audit, and readiness status   A production-readiness guarantee
Docking                Settings, mapping, candidates, failures,        Author authentication or binding free energy
JSON/Markdown          hashes, and selection
Action script JSON     Public actions and bindings                     Arbitrary code, direct coordinates, or complete view
                                                                       state
PNG or share URL       A visual snapshot or current/registered URL     A reusable molecule or serialized live session



Agent skill contract: export_and_handoff

Contract element        Requirement
Goal                    Preserve the smallest complete set of molecular, procedural, numerical, and decision records needed
                        by the next scientist or agent.
Preconditions           The authoritative result and its intended downstream use are identified; unsaved state has not yet
                        been cleared or replaced.
Inputs                  Recipient and purpose; required molecular format; action/replay needs; calculation, preparation,
                        docking, or campaign evidence to retain.
Procedure               Inventory records; export reusable molecular state and method evidence; create an action script
                        when replay is required; commit decision history when project continuity is required; verify hashes
                        and replay; describe missing pieces explicitly.
State mutation          Export is non-mutating. Script import is destructive to the unsaved scene and must follow export of
                        work that must be retained.
Evidence                Exported files, schema and version identifiers, hashes where recorded, replay audit, and a statement
                        of assumptions and unresolved failures.
Success                 The recipient can identify the starting state, reproduce guarded actions where supported, inspect
                        the method and result, and distinguish accepted decisions from candidates.
On failure              Stop on schema, action, binding, hash, or referenced-content mismatch. Do not describe a partial
                        replay as equivalent to a completed audit.
Boundary                No complete project bundle or automatic capture of browser-native transport, calculation binaries,
                        or every transient view gesture. An action script is not a substitute for the authoritative snapshot.


await api.execute({action:"campaign.create", args:{
  campaignId:"sos1-local-design", title:"SOS1 local design",
  initialCommitMessage:"Register 5OVE/AXE starting state"}})
// chemist or agent performs guarded molecular actions


                                                            34
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                              Wiewiora and Sherman



await api.execute({action:"campaign.commitCurrent", args:{
  message:"Accept Phe890-out design state", tags:["prospective"]}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.recordDecision", args:{
  disposition:"progressed",
  rationale:"No new clashes after pocket-state search"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.verify", args:{}})


B.11     How skill contracts, API actions, and Design History fit together
Status. Current conceptual and executable relationship.
The question. How does a written agent contract become an authorized action and then a durable scientific
decision?
The three layers serve different purposes and should not be collapsed:
 1. The skill contract defines scientific intent. It states preconditions, permissible operations, required evidence,
    success, failure, and escalation. Here these names are proposed narrative operating contracts stored with the
    manuscript. They are not installed runtime skills, Chemist Actions, schemas, or executable enforcement.
 2. The Chemist Actions API defines executable authority. api.describe() lists installed action names
    and bounded arguments. Calls are validated, serialized through one queue, and audited with sequence, status,
    result or error, and duration. An agent cannot gain extra molecular authority by phrasing a request differently.
 3. Design History defines durable meaning over time. It commits complete molecular states and can link
    them to an explicitly partial public-action script, branches, decisions, evidence, actors, and append-only integrity
    records. The snapshot answers “what state was accepted?”; the action script answers “which guarded operations
    were captured and can be replayed?”; and the decision answers “why was it accepted?”
The practical agent pattern is:
const manifest = api.describe();          // discover installed authority
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect", args:{scope:"all"}})
await api.execute({action:"geometry.setInternalCoordinate", args:{
  atomIds:[a,b,c,d], value:172.0, moveConnected:true}})
await api.execute({action:"session.inspect", args:{scope:"all"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.commitCurrent",
  args:{message:"Accepted state after declared check"}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.recordDecision",
  args:{disposition:"progressed", rationale:"..."}})
await api.execute({action:"campaign.verify", args:{}})

The manifest is the executable authority: a narrative skill contract cannot add an action, relax argument validation,
or bypass a molecular precondition. Scientific review remains necessary even when an operation is exposed to both
interface and agent.
Handoff rule. Export the structure when the recipient needs coordinates; export the calculation record when the
recipient must judge the method; export the Designer Moves script together with its required starting state when the
recipient must replay operations; and commit to Design History when the recipient must recover branches, decisions,
and accepted molecular states. Hashes detect alteration of the serialized record. They do not establish authorship,
chemical equivalence, or scientific validity.
The appendix in one sentence. For every task: make the molecular state explicit, choose a method whose scope
matches the question, inspect before applying a candidate, retain the evidence needed to reproduce the decision, and
stop when the declared scientific boundary is crossed.
Capabilities deliberately outside these workflows
The current workbench does not provide missing-loop construction, membrane or general metal preparation, covalent-
ligand parameterization, periodic explicit solvent, PME, production-scale trajectories, binding free energy, global
docking, general remote CUDA execution, GFN/xTB, general combinatorial enumeration, or automatic campaign
selection. Their absence is part of the operating contract rather than a prompt to approximate them silently.
This task-centered appendix intentionally omits maintainer file paths, source-line numbers, worker lifecycle details, JSON
nesting limits, deployment internals, and the complete repository test list. Those remain valuable implementation and audit


                                                            35
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                               Wiewiora and Sherman



documentation, but they are not required for a scientist or agent to understand how to perform and judge the workflows above.


References
 [1] Bran, A. M.; Cox, S.; Schilter, O.; Baldassari, C.; White, A. D.; Schwaller, P. Augmenting Large
     Language Models with Chemistry Tools. Nature Machine Intelligence 2024, 6, 525–535.

 [2] Boiko, D. A.; MacKnight, R.; Kline, B.; Gomes, G. Autonomous Chemical Research with Large
     Language Models. Nature 2023, 624, 570–578.

 [3] Pham, T. D.; Tanikanti, A.; Keçeli, M. ChemGraph as an Agentic Framework for Computational
     Chemistry Workflows. Communications Chemistry 2026, 9, 33.

 [4] MacKnight, R.; Boiko, D. A.; Regio, J. E.; Gallegos, L. C.; Neukomm, T. A.; et al. Rethinking
     Chemical Research in the Age of Large Language Models. Nature Computational Science 2025, 5,
     715–726.

 [5] Haas, A.; Rossberg, A.; Schuff, D. L.; et al. Bringing the Web up to Speed with WebAssembly. Proc.
     PLDI 2017, 185–200.

 [6] W3C GPU for the Web Working Group. WebGPU Specification, 2025.

 [7] Riniker, S.; Landrum, G. A. Better Informed Distance Geometry: Using What We Know to Improve
     Conformation Generation. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2015, 55, 2562–2574.

 [8] Boothroyd, S.; Madin, O. C.; Mobley, D. L.; et al. Development and Benchmarking of Open Force
     Field 2.0.0: The Sage Small-Molecule Force Field. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2023, 19, 3251–3275.

 [9] Eastman, P.; Galvelis, R.; Peláez, R. P.; et al. OpenMM 8: Molecular Dynamics Simulation with
     Machine Learning Potentials. J. Phys. Chem. B 2024, 128, 109–116.

[10] Cerutti, D. S.; Wiewiora, R. P.; Boothroyd, S.; Sherman, W. STORMM: Structure and Topology
     Replica Molecular Mechanics for Chemical Simulations. J. Chem. Phys. 2024, 161, 032501.

[11] Devereux, C.; Smith, J. S.; Huddleston, K. K.; et al. Extending the Applicability of the ANI Deep
     Learning Molecular Potential to Sulfur and Halogens. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 2020, 16, 4192–4202.

[12] Ahdritz, G.; Bouatta, N.; Floristean, C.; et al. OpenFold: Retraining AlphaFold2 Yields New Insights
     into Its Learning Mechanisms and Capacity for Generalization. Nature Methods 2024, 21, 1514–1524.

[13] Ryckaert, J.-P.; Ciccotti, G.; Berendsen, H. J. C. Numerical Integration of the Cartesian Equations of
     Motion of a System with Constraints: Molecular Dynamics of n-Alkanes. J. Comput. Phys. 1977, 23,
     327–341.

[14] Andersen, H. C. RATTLE: A “Velocity” Version of the SHAKE Algorithm for Molecular Dynamics
     Calculations. J. Comput. Phys. 1983, 52, 24–34.

[15] Cohen-Boulakia, S.; Belhajjame, K.; Collin, O.; et al. Scientific Workflows for Computational
     Reproducibility in the Life Sciences: Status, Challenges and Opportunities. Future Gener. Comput.
     Syst. 2017, 75, 284–298.

[16] Pritchard, N. J.; Wicenec, A. Formal Definition and Implementation of Reproducibility Tenets for
     Computational Workflows. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2025, 166, 107684.

[17] Wilkinson, M. D.; Dumontier, M.; Aalbersberg, I. J.; et al. The FAIR Guiding Principles for Scientific
     Data Management and Stewardship. Sci. Data 2016, 3, 160018.

                                                            36
Molarium — Appendix B                                                                Wiewiora and Sherman



[18] Bender, A.; Cortés-Ciriano, I. Artificial Intelligence in Drug Discovery: What Is Realistic, What Are
     Illusions? Part 1. Drug Discov. Today 2021, 26, 511–524.

[19] Bender, A.; Cortés-Ciriano, I. Artificial Intelligence in Drug Discovery: What Is Realistic, What Are
     Illusions? Part 2. Drug Discov. Today 2021, 26, 1040–1052.

[20] Wigh, D. S.; Goodman, J. M.; Lapkin, A. A. A Review of Molecular Representation in the Age of
     Machine Learning. WIREs Comput. Mol. Sci. 2022, 12, e1603.

[21] Bainbridge, L. Ironies of Automation. Automatica 1983, 19, 775–779.

[22] W3C GPU for the Web Working Group. WebGPU Shading Language, 2026. https://www.w3.org/
     TR/WGSL/.

[23] Wang, S.; Witek, J.; Landrum, G. A.; Riniker, S. Improving Conformer Generation for Small Rings
     and Macrocycles Based on Distance Geometry and Experimental Torsional-Angle Preferences. J.
     Chem. Inf. Model. 2020, 60, 2044–2058.

[24] Halgren, T. A. Merck Molecular Force Field. I. Basis, Form, Scope, Parameterization, and Performance
     of MMFF94. J. Comput. Chem. 1996, 17, 490–519.

[25] Rappé, A. K.; Casewit, C. J.; Colwell, K. S.; Goddard, W. A.; Skiff, W. M. UFF, a Full Periodic
     Table Force Field for Molecular Mechanics and Molecular Dynamics Simulations. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
     1992, 114, 10024–10035.

[26] Gasteiger, J.; Marsili, M. Iterative Partial Equalization of Orbital Electronegativity—A Rapid Access
     to Atomic Charges. Tetrahedron 1980, 36, 3219–3228.

[27] Eastman, P.; Swails, J.; Chodera, J. D.; et al. OpenMM 7: Rapid Development of High Performance
     Algorithms for Molecular Dynamics. PLoS Comput. Biol. 2017, 13, e1005659.

[28] Onufriev, A.; Bashford, D.; Case, D. A. Exploring Protein Native States and Large-Scale Conforma-
     tional Changes with a Modified Generalized Born Model. Proteins 2004, 55, 383–394.

[29] Glaser, J.; Nguyen, T. D.; Anderson, J. A.; et al. Strong Scaling of General-Purpose Molecular
     Dynamics Simulations on GPUs. Comput. Phys. Commun. 2015, 192, 97–107.

[30] Hillig, R. C.; Sautier, B.; Schroeder, J.; et al. Discovery of Potent SOS1 Inhibitors That Block RAS
     Activation via Disruption of the RAS–SOS1 Interaction. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2019, 116,
     2551–2560.




                                                   37
